Hello Traders, welcome to part 3 of Ultra Market Theory, I basically, I don't actually know at the time that I start, and I've repeated this a few times, exactly how the session, this session is going to come out, however what I like to do obviously is just have some cues or just some basic things, you know like you've seen in some parts I'll have tables and things to give me prompts, but to be honest I don't know exactly how this is going to come out, but a couple things, firstly I thought it'd be quite nice for me to approach this section in the way that you see above, and the reason for that is that basically, you know I do realise, or I recognise that the last two sections that I've done were very heavy in terms of theory, and whilst they were very much important to understand so we can build a framework, and you know, more importantly than a framework, a proper understanding of how the marketplace is working, look I do recognise that at some stages, you know, you want to ultimately get on with trading, so what I've done is I've decided that I'm going to bring in the e-mini S&P, I'm going to, and I'm telling you this at the start so you don't, you know I know what it's like with a lot of theory, it can be easy to switch off, so I just want to tell you right at the start that look, stick with this because the way I'm going to do this balance versus imbalance is I'm actually going to bring in today's S&P 500, so it's today's market, you know I'm not looking back at a different market or historically, but to do that, I thought the best way to do it is, first we start off theoretical so we do a little recap of how it should work in theory, then we look at you know everyday goods, that you've traded goods and services, obviously services I'm not really going to look at, but it's the same concept, I'm going to look at a couple of the goods that we saw before and then I'm going to switch up gears and I'm going to show you the exact same thing, so we're going to start with balance, I'm going to show you balance in theory, balance in a traded good that we're used to seeing as a consumer, you know all the things I talked about in the table in the last section, you know, so traded goods and services being more supply driven, dominated, and then we're going to look at how that relates to the actual market, so we're going to get on with that, and also I thought I'd take the opportunity to say that, look this is really coming towards the end now of the theoretical part of the course, there will be obviously bits of theory, but in terms of the heavy theory, this is pretty much it, so stick with me, that's why I'm telling you now, because I want to give you something to look forward to, because I know it's hard work to obviously go through this intensive theory phase without actually being on the charts, because you're so used to doing things the way that you've been taught, if assuming you've come from a retail background, I know some of you will have been in institutional background or sector, and you may be used to some of this, but either way, people want to get on charts, I understand, but it's important to do this, but kind of dangling the carrot to keep you concentrated, I just want to let you know that really we're getting very close now towards the end of the theory, there's just going to be this, although I'm bringing in the S&P obviously, as in the real market, you're going to see it in this, and believe me, to me it's exciting, I can't wait to show you, because I did a little recording of the S&P today and I'm thinking yeah, it's going to be really something that they will enjoy, I hope so anyway, I certainly think you will, and anyway, so after this section then you've got the normal distribution section, so there's going to be some heavy theory just after this, statistics, I just want to get it all out of the way, and then that's about it, we're not really going to talk anymore about, you know, you obviously see I obviously like bread, milk and eggs, or cream eggs, chocolate cream eggs and all the things that I've been talking about, but that's going to be it, after this we're then going to crack on and really start talking about markets, and basically I've got some really exciting stuff in terms of, you know, helping you apply some of this directly to the market, looking for trading opportunities, so look, stick with me, that's all to come, but the more you focus on this and really absorb this and take it in, and I'm going to be honest with you, you know, it's okay if you don't get it the first time, I know a lot of this is the first time you've seen it, so stick with it, try your best to absorb it, reach out to me if anything doesn't make sense, but don't really skip it is what I'm saying, don't just skip it and go on to the sections that, even though I haven't built yet at this moment in time, obviously I know I'm going to build some really amazing sections where I add in some sort of strategy ideas that obviously I was taught in a proprietary trading firm and some of my own ones, and you know, there'll be the temptation to skip to that, but I would suggest you don't, because if you skip to those sections, you're not going to get that deep and meaningful understanding, what's going to happen is you're just going to use that stuff, which is what I see it time and time again, even in institutions, they make the same mistake, where they're using all these volume tools as indicators, and what's the point, you might as well just then use normal indicators, you have to have this understanding, so you understand the limitations, A, but more importantly, you actually get a deep understanding of how powerful these things are and what they're actually telling you. So yeah, let's crack on. So what we'll do is we'll start with the theory. So like I said, in this section, we're going to talk about balance, because I want to do a recap and just make sure that everyone understands what balance is, and then we can quickly move on to imbalance. So it's worth doing a little recap. And then I really want to talk about this thing, because like I said, I reviewed the previous sections, and I hadn't, well I had, sorry, I had reviewed it just over the last couple of days, because believe it or not, it was quite intense for me to even talk about those things. So I did take a couple of days off to review things. And I realised that it'd be really powerful and useful for me to talk about cause versus effect. So we'll get on to that. So in terms of balance, let's have a recap, in theory, how it works, right? So we were saying, we've already given a couple of examples where we had, you know, the bread example, and we talked about bread being at one pound, and sorry, that's a terrible one pound, isn't it? Sorry, bear with me. Let's get this drawn properly. Okay, and we said over time that, you know, the price would fluctuate. Again, it's supply dominated, however, so, you know, these numbers may not be the same as what I've, exactly the same as what I've given previously, but the concept is identical. So I've put one pound five here, one pound ten, and that's the price. So as we know, generally, the price will be a pound. Now, don't forget, this is over time, because obviously prices tend to be sticky on a day by day basis in the real open marketplace that you and I are used to being consumers in, right? So price of bread, this isn't really something I can show you over a day, because over a day, you're just going to be one line, as you saw with the webcam example, where I just had that one line, whereas the financial market is obviously doing what this is doing over a long period of time, the financial market is doing it second by second. But put that out of your mind, and just try and picture exactly what's going on here, and understand that it is the same process, but it's just happening, as I said, much quicker in a much more efficient manner in the financial market, because there's so much supply and competition, as we've already discussed previously. So what will generally happen, as we said, is the market will generally start a pound, and it will fluctuate, won't it, between these prices. So you can see it's really not going anywhere, is it? But it's moving. And why is that? Well, we already said there's no imbalance, obviously comes in, as you saw in the milk example that I gave in Module 4, I believe, imbalance happens, i.e. structural shifts in balance to different places, when there's fundamental changes in the underlying market, like production, you know, all the fundamentals, same thing in financial markets, when you get a big shift in interest rates, when you get the Federal Reserve making announcements about what their future expectations are of inflation, interest rates, jobs numbers, fundamental shifts in the economy will obviously drive balance in the financial markets in the same way. Balance will be driven, you know, to different places entirely in traded goods and services for the same reasons. It may not be Federal Reserve announcements, although of course, that will have a tiny impact on some goods and services, but it's going to be more underlying structural changes in those particular products. And we're going to talk about that. But here, I just want you to understand, I'm just talking about gyrations around the current price. So why does that happen? We talked about it before already. It's suppliers doing what? Changing prices, right? It's at a pound, and it could be Tesco, and they'll go and test the market according to. So you'll have your quantity here, as we have discussed previously. And in a balanced market, you'll see what? This, of course, don't forget, will be building transactions, right? These will be market orders coming in, people buying. And what, as we said, Tesco or Walmart or whoever, they'll have people looking at this data, and they'll be doing what? They'll be changing prices and testing the market to see if there's consumer demand in those places. So very much one way, supply driven, offer side, they're changing the prices. But as you see, the concept is the same in the financial markets. And I'm going to show you that in the S&P 500. But we can see that approximately, it's in this range, isn't it? In this range, fair value is not necessarily over time. I know I said in the last example, on a particular day, you can get a good grasp, businesses, and they have to be able to, because obviously, you know, they need to have some certainty. But over long periods of time, you will see quite decent shifts within the same range for goods such as bread, obviously, chocolates, webcams, as we talked about before. So what they'll be doing, you know, almost on a daily basis is they'll shift the price a little bit, won't they? And they'll see, what do we get any build up of? Because, in fact, probably a better way for me to show you this is exactly how the volume profile builds. So price, they'll shift the price, and they'll see. So we know at £1, there's going to be decent demand. And obviously, they're going to be happy to supply at that price. So supply and demand, obviously equated, but then they're going to shift the price and they'll see, you know, is demand enough for them to make profits. And then they'll keep shifting it and they'll keep shifting it and clearly demand will stop. And eventually, they'll get to a point where, you know, revenue doesn't cover their costs or whatever the reason may be. And then they'll start to move down again, right? Now, I thought about this because I realised some people might, you may or may not, some people might be thinking, well, why don't you leave it at £1 forever? See, you've got to remember, and you see it on your depth of market, consumers are different all the time, aren't they? There's different people. It's not the same people always buying every day or every minute. You've seen that on the depth of market. It's always different people with different thoughts and obviously different tastes. And, you know, these things do obviously have an impact. So every day, it's not the same person, or every week, it's not the same exact group of people. It may generally be, but obviously, Tesco will want to test that, won't they? So they'll be doing these price shifts, essentially, and all they're doing is they're just testing the market, right? And then they'll be doing the same on the other side. And so you've got to remember the profile isn't already there. It's building as this happens, right? It's building so you see the profile, and then that will give them a rough idea of, okay, over time, that's where the bulk of our demand is. And that's why we should be testing within that range. Now, hopefully, that makes sense. And we are going to look at that for real. In fact, why don't we do that? And then I want to come on to this cause and effect. So I'm just going to bring up the bread. Okay, so you've got bread here. Now, let me just, sorry, make that a bit less messy for you so you can actually see that. So you can see there's been a shift over the past couple years, but let's just ignore that for now. It's irrelevant. The point is, over a significant period of time, from 2012 to 2017, late 2017, almost five years, you can see that. Now, this is Amazon that essentially... Now, the thing is, you've got to realize how lucky you are because Amazon, we don't see this data, right? We just see this price. But Amazon have this data internally. As this is moving, obviously, they have a profile. And we've discussed this to death, so I'm not going to keep saying the same point in depth, but it's important that I keep repeating it for those of you that maybe just need just that little bit of extra reminding until you get that aha moment. But hopefully, you're seeing it, that every time they're just shifting it, they're testing. So this is where I want to bring in the cause and effect, right? So we've looked at it on a theoretical basis. We've now seen a real example of balance. And I'm going to show you on the e-mini S&P as well, but what it is is I've talked a lot about people not understanding how fierce the competition is, and obviously, things about indicators and why volume is so important. One thing I haven't talked about in the entire course yet is this, and it's cause versus effect. And I know I keep saying it, but you've got to remember, this is an incredibly complex endeavour or field you're getting into. And don't get me wrong, I'm not saying it's the most complex thing, but it's one of the most complex things out there. So there's not only one factor that's going to be very, very crucial that you understand. There's several. And cause versus effect, honestly, I cannot stress how important this concept is of cause versus effect. And I'm not trying to, again, I always say this, but it's important I say it because I want you to understand, I'm not trying to treat anyone as a child like I'm lecturing them. I want you to understand I'm saying this because, you know, I want to help you so badly you don't understand like the amount of nonsense I see out there. That's why I'm saying it in the way I'm going to say it, because I really want you to get it, that's why. So what I want you to do is, if you can, and you don't mind, because I think it'll be good for you because I did this, I want you to spend a few days with, if you can, with no markets and no learning and think about this cause versus effect phenomenon. Because it took me a while and when I realised it, I actually stopped. I'll be honest with you, I stopped trading for a little while. Not because I wasn't making money, I was doing okay, but because I wanted to really take some time out to make sure that my brain registered this thing. And I don't know if someone told me this or not, but it was many years ago that it clicked for me. And I think someone did actually say something to me along the lines of that you don't actually understand how much is going on off the chart that is driving the chart. So I kind of knew, but I never really understood just how much was going on on the chart until I got off the chart. And I'll tell you why, because obviously I was on a depth of market for a long time and I didn't even look at charts. But when I came on to charts, I probably did fall into that trap a little bit of getting so engrossed in the price. Now, obviously I knew that volume was driving it, but I don't know, for some reason, and I'm just being honest with you, it never clicked, just how much the line on the chart is irrelevant. And it comes down to this thing, cause versus effect. Why do I say this and how versus effect? Why do I say this and how do we relate it to what's going on here? So guys, you've got to understand all this stuff about, so you know how you normally view a chart, right? Where you'll basically see stuff happening and then it comes back. I don't know. And people think of all this stuff like support and resistance and whatever it is. It can be technical analysis, you know, in the traditional sense. It could also be things like looking at areas where you're going to bounce off and people have this notion of relating what? Price to price. Can you see? So they're looking at the effect. You've got to understand price is the effect. Effect of what? Tesco moving. Tesco looking at demand and thinking, let's move the price. Do you see this is a cause that's happening where? Off the chart. How can we capture this cause? That's when something clicked in me, just, I mean, I always knew that market orders, demand, depth of market supply or whatever was pretty much like 80% of it. This is when I realised it's 100%, right? I don't know why, for whatever reason, it just never clicked. And now it has. And this was several years ago, as I said, this cause versus effect. And I know I keep repeating the point, but it's because it's just, I cannot stress how important this point is. In the way I said, you've got to stop looking at your charts at individual points that are cheap or expensive. You've got to stop looking at your charts and being so enamoured by this line going up and down. It's meaningless. It doesn't mean anything. The thing that's driving that line is not the line or the previous lines. So maybe that's the best way of describing it, because would you agree, as traders, we're so used to seeing what's gone on historically on our chart and relating moves to what's going on, you know, previously, right? No one can deny that. They look at things like this going on, market goes up and then coming down, right? And they look at this and then they think that, guys, you wouldn't believe that that is not what's happening, right? And obviously, you can imagine it was eye-opening for me. And I said this in one of the previous sessions, whenever I'm speaking about this stuff, even I'm taking it back, because now it's just so natural to me. I don't think of when I look at a chart, and it comes down here, I'm not even thinking about this in price terms. I don't look at, you know, what is going on on the chart versus what's happened before on the chart in terms of price. I'm looking at it in terms of value. Why? Because value is the cause, isn't it? What's causing Tesco to change these prices? They're not looking at necessarily the actual price, where it's been before, or price action, as people call it, are they? No. They're looking at demand. And where's demand happened? It's happened off the chart. People going and buying things, people doing things on the depth of market. Is that happening in the chart? No, it's not. It's happening off the chart. So what is the chart then? The chart is just the effect of that. Can you see that? This is why I say, if you can, if you get it straight away, fine. But, you know, for me, I liked it. I mean, I liked the thought of taking a few days away, because it was so, like, this unbelievable moment a few years ago. You know what I talked about? You know, I was pretty stagnant, I think, you know, a couple of years after I left investment banking, and I was taking outright risk. And I did okay. And then I said there was this period where, you know, I had a few realizations and my equity curve really went up. And I'm sorry, I hope you don't mind me talking about these things. I hope you can see that. It's really genuine when I talk to you about these things. And, you know, I'm saying it to really help you, because I feel like if I share these things with you as a professional trader, then it brings it to life and really gives it some meaning because it's actually happened. These things that I tell you. So I highly recommend you go away and really think about how you perceive the chart and try to really move away from looking at a chart as price versus price. So previous price versus price and really start thinking of it as value in terms of market orders, real people, basically, you know, things that are happening on the chart are really just the repercussions of value or people doing things in the moment, which you obviously see that raw data. That's why a lot of traders, you know, maybe not so much recently, but obviously algorithms are very profitable. Algorithm doesn't look at a chart, does it? Think about it. What is an algorithm actually doing? The most unbelievably profitable algorithms in the world. They're not using charts. They're just using raw data. I know this because obviously I've I know people who program algorithms and, you know, I speak to them all the time and they're all looking at volume profile. I can assure you that every single profitable algorithm in the world, bar none, is looking at volume at every single level. Why is that? Because that's the cause, right, of what what's happening on your chart. So stop looking at charts in that way. I know I haven't said it before. It's just because over the last two days as I was thinking about things, I knew I wanted to bring it in at some stage. I just thought, what a wonderful opportunity to do this whilst I'm just recapping balance, because the danger is people when they go away, they'll think this blast out, it comes back and it's bouncing here because of the chart. It's not. It's real people that have transacted here before. You know, Tesco obviously are looking at this data and thinking, let's change our price because of behaviour that happened in real life, right? If you think about it, when you go to buy bread, you don't take your chart with you. You're not doing anything on a chart. It's happening off the chart. Yeah, the effect, the consequence of your behaviour can be depicted on a chart. But what is that? It's nothing. It's just a line. It's ink, OK? So I hope you get that. And I hope you don't mind me repeating that point a few times. I just thought it's a great time for me to bring in cause versus effect. So let's move on anyway. So we've said that this balancing happens because obviously suppliers are testing consumer demand or market orders over time just to obviously flex and see if there's demand at certain price points and whether that brings them profit. So this means that over a period of time, it's very difficult, obviously, to pinpoint one price. But so as I said before, we're no longer going to do that. We're going to start looking at price as a range of prices. OK, so how do we actually measure this range? That's what the next theoretical section is going to be about. However, at least we have to acknowledge that there is a range and there's not one particular price. So what I'd like to do is I'm just going to quickly show you one more example of balance. OK, and I'm probably going to do a heading because I'm going to talk about this cause and effect a lot because it's really crucial because obviously when I see, you know, especially retail traders and, you know, I'm not criticising retail traders. I know the education is bad and that's why I'm here. And, you know, hopefully all of you become professional traders. So don't think I'm criticising you or anyone else in any way. It's just the reality that when I see retail traders think of things, you can imagine it makes me laugh when they say to me, oh, price is bouncing here because price did this before. Well, it didn't. It's just ink. Why is it bouncing there? Because that's where there was consumer demand before, which happened off the chart. So and I'm going to show you why this is really important when we talk about the S&P because I'm going to show you how I use volume profile. And this cause and effect is incredibly important. But let's look at Cadbury's Creme Egg box of 48. But it could be a box of anything. I'm just messing around. I just arbitrarily picked that. But can you see? So between 2017 and 2020, the last three years, this price actually down is fluctuated. Amazon have obviously done what? They flexed it according to obviously how much revenue they feel they can generate at different price points. So, again, supplier driven. And don't forget, this formed over time again. Right. So at the very early days, this profile was very thin like this. And as consumer orders came in at every different price level, it obviously built up. Right. So obviously that hopefully that's obvious. And you'll forgive my terrible drawing and know exactly what I'm trying to get at. It's developing over time as it fluctuates. And so we can never really say, you know, we can say, as I said previously, over maybe a day or a week, whatever, that the price was £20. But over time, it's very difficult for us. You can't say, you know, over the last three years, the price of a Cadbury's Creme Egg has been £20. It hasn't. It's been basically some sort of area, isn't it, between here and here. And again, that's something we're going to look at. And again, to repeat the point, broken record. Don't forget, this is just ink right on the chart. What's actually happening here is Amazon are making decisions based on market orders. And that's causing this to go up. The effect is what? Just a dot on my chart. So, you know, I hope you can almost laugh now at all these people that you see on social media and no disrespect to them. I think they're probably great people. But when it comes to markets, and I'm sure they're not doing it intentionally, they just don't realise that all this thing they talk about, about, oh, the market will turn here because of some line going through because of previous price action here, terrible example. But you know what I mean? Coming back more to what I showed here. When people are doing this type of analysis, and they say, oh, it's turning here because there's been some basically bit of ink on my chart. You can see it's completely ridiculous. They have no idea what was actually going on here. Was there volume here? Or actually, was their volume, sorry, or actually was the cause that would drive, obviously, prices in the marketplace? Was it actually here, but you just can't see it? You see what I mean? That could have been very thin in terms of consumer orders. Whereas here, we may have actually had true, you can call it support. I don't necessarily like that word, but value. So actually, this is meaningless here. When it comes down here, price is likely to change. Why? Because that's where real people will be looking at consumer demand in the real market. And I'll show you how, obviously, in the financial market, market orders will be algorithms and people who obviously transact, professionals. They'll be looking more at this. They won't necessarily look at this. So just to repeat the point, obviously, when I was in depth market, like I said, I never even had a chart. To me, it was meaningless. And you saw this. Do you remember the pound-dollar example I did in module four? I was just reading it off the depth of market. Yeah, there was a chart there, but I didn't really care too much about it. I was doing what? I was reading the volume. Do you remember when I was watching it build up? If you don't, go back and have a look at that example. That is pure cause. I'm looking at cause. I don't care about the effect. I care about cause. So I'm going to show you how to develop that thinking. But I would highly suggest after this section is finished that you think about that a little bit until you actually come to the conclusion yourself, because I don't want you to just take my word on things. And if you don't, contact me. We can have a chat about it. I love talking about markets. I'm happy to go through it with you. But that's entirely your choice. But yeah, I don't want you to feel alone and think I'm lost. I don't really understand. This is too much. Always reach out to me. I love trying to help people reach this understanding, because for me, you can imagine, it's fascinating, because I don't know many people in the world that understand markets, how they should be understood. So the more people I can get to really understand it properly, it's a beautiful thing for me. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to stop jabbering now, and I'm actually going to finally bring in the same example of balance. But I'm going to show you this on the e-mini S&P. OK, so I'll see you in one second. OK, so what I've got here, I've brought up the e-mini S&P 500, which you should be used to, because obviously I've provided you with a depth of market, and you may have played with it around. And I think I did a small example on the footprint, although I did suggest don't go and look at the footprint. But if you did, then you would have seen I did a nice little example showing the e-mini S&P. But look, it doesn't matter whether you saw this or you just stuck to the treasuries. In fact, I prefer it that you stuck to the treasuries. The concept is identical. So if you don't mind, I'm just going to maximise this so we can all see it properly. And luckily today in the marketplace, there's actually a balanced market in the S&P 500. So it's a bit of luck, really. But to be fair, the e-mini generally is a very balanced marketplace, day to day anyway, intraday. And there's many reasons for that, but I won't get into that now. But it was nice because I can show you a balanced market so you can see what happened today. So again, we don't care about individual price points. I'm not going to keep repeating what I said in the last two sections. Obviously, we've discussed it to death, really, that individual price points don't matter. And over the day to day, do you remember I talked about the webcam example? I can't remember, £105 or something. I said, you know, Amazon can say in their P&L or in the board meetings, yeah, today £105, we made this much. Can you see it's very difficult in the financial market because obviously it's closing opportunities at, in the moment where you talk about individual prices, as I said. So what do we want to do? We want to kind of just generally look at the market today and think, OK, it's generally been where? In a balanced range. Look, every time it came out, it went up. Every time it came out, it went up. Every time it, sorry, every time it came out here, it came down. Every time it came out here, it came down. Every time it went down, it came up. Every time it came down, sorry, you'll have to forgive me. It's been a long day. So I didn't I didn't even know what I was saying there. So I'll start again. So every time it went up, obviously, it came back into balance. Every time it went down, it came. But can you see it's the same as the bread market, etc., etc.? But again, I'll come back to cause and effect, but I'm not going to say this again and again. I'm going to assume you've understood what I said about demand being more dominant, market orders. If you didn't, go back to the last section after I've explained this and have a look again. But in the same way, really, it doesn't matter. OK, price is doing the same thing. It's trying to look for areas where transactions want to occur. You see, what it is, is you've got to you've got to understand this thing about supply domination versus demand domination. But ultimately, it's the same thing, because if you think about it, what are Tesco actually doing, or Walmart, what are they doing when they move price? They're looking to see, is there consumer demand here? They're coming back down. They're seeing, is there, they're doing it everywhere, really. But what you've got to understand is that's the supplier doing it. In financial markets, it doesn't matter about the actual reasoning behind it. The fact is the financial market is doing exactly the same thing. But what matters is that it's demand dominant. Think about it at every single price point. Do you agree? There's always offers and bids, right? There's always supply. There's always supply. But what actually happens is when it when the market moves down, right, obviously, you see that the profile is building here. All that's happening, guys, is think of eBay, one way market, the only thing is the two way market. So what happens on eBay in an auction? Think about it where you put an item for sale, you're the supplier, are you dictating the price? No, you're not. It's the buyer, isn't it? Market orders, bids are being placed in the market. But they're physical bids, aren't they? They're more like market orders. They're not passive bids. You're not saying to the seller, come and get my bid. No, you're aggressively placing a bidding. I'm going to buy that. I want to buy it. OK, a physical transaction hasn't taken place because obviously in an auction marketplace, it's the final price. But it's the same thing. You're placing aggressive bids, right? And what happens when the market's cheap according to what you perceive value to be? Not individual price, value, relative to value, right? If you perceive that value is here, right, what are you going to do? You're going to keep getting aggressive and you've got to understand that's what's happening, but not on the supply column, on the market order column. OK, so demand is coming in at these places. Why? Because the perception is that the fair price is where? Here. Why is that? Because that's where the market's been trading. Think about it. When you're on eBay, when I explain this to you, I hope those of you who haven't got it are going to just think, wow, this is what's actually going. You can't deny it. Like when someone tells you, use this indicator, it's amazing. But you haven't got a clue, right? You don't need me to show you P&L to show you this true because go on eBay. When you go on eBay and you bid on something, do you just bid blindly or do you see where transactions took place previously? You see where transactions took place previously. I know because I was looking at iPhones and I was thinking, you know, the auction was at £600 and what do you think I did? I went and looked at previous transactions that had taken place and I saw they took place at £1,000, £1,100. Obviously, I knew I was willing to keep buying the market until £1,100 where it had previous market orders. That's all that's happening, guys. And instead of suppliers doing this process, it's demand market orders. Why? Because of what I talked about before. There's a lot of competition, obviously, in terms of supply. Now, you could argue, and I get it, you say, yeah, but aren't people buying on the bid when we get down here in terms of passive people, you know, absorbing? Yes, they are. But does that make the price go up? This is why I wanted you to watch the depth of market. When people are absorbing, right, and this is going to prove the point about this 95% market orders. You've seen it. People are absorbing, right? I showed you plenty of absorption. Did it move the market? No. What actually moved the market? Aggression. So, yes, absorption built long positions, but that was static at one point. So, someone's sitting here absorbing, absorbing, absorbing. What actually made it move up? Market orders, right? Actually hitting, like lifting the offer. So, you know, it's all well and good sitting on the bid saying, yeah, I'm a supplier, I'll buy, buy, buy, buy, but unless aggression comes in, can you see the price isn't going to move? So, I hope you understand that, that it is aggression that actually causes prices to move in a financial market because, as we said, prices are not sticky. They're very, very liquid, okay? So, that doesn't mean more buyers than sellers. Don't make that mistake because it isn't. You've got to understand how incredibly efficient this marketplace is. There's always a seller for every buyer. You see that. Just because I lift a market order on the offer side, there's someone who actually went short. All it means is the aggressive side that's dictating this price determination process of where fair value should be, and this is just happening all day long within a confined space. When market comes down, it goes up. But the thing is, on eBay and generally in the marketplace, if there's aggression that's causing, obviously, the price to rise, and think about it, anyway, if there is a lot of aggression that's causing price to rise or Tesco to obviously be determining where the price should be, again, it's two-way, isn't it? Think about it. They're still selling you bread. You might be buying it. It's not just a one-way market. It's got more buyers of bread than sellers of bread. It's still the same in terms of number of units. It's just that aggression. It's just that, obviously, the price determination process is more dictated in financial markets by buyers. Again, coming to my point, what's happening at this end? Same thing but in reverse. It's almost like eBay having a reverse auction. The thing is, people find this hard to grasp because obviously in real life, it's very unique to financial markets where you have this very liquid and aggressive two-way process. It can happen in some wholesale markets. But obviously, structurally, it's slightly different. As you saw in the banana market, it does happen. But structurally, because of price stickiness and things that are well beyond the scope of this course, I mean, at the end of the day, it's not even relevant, I'll be honest with you. But it is a fact that it's slightly different. I discussed it in the last section. But essentially, all that's happening is this aggression going up is happening in reverse. And it's just, you've got to understand, guys, that's the cause. And what's the effect? It's a little black thing that you see going up and down. There's actual price line or candles or whatever you call them. Nonsense, ridiculous. So you can imagine, you're always almost laughing because you know I said to you, when you're on eBay and you're sitting at 600, you've aggressively done what? Pressed buy. And you're obviously causing the market to, or the price to shift up. What are you looking at? Are you looking at previously where transactions have taken place? Or are you looking at a MACD? Honestly, are you looking, this is a serious question to those of you that use technical analysis. I mean, any sort of technical analysis, are you looking at? And honestly, I don't even know about these things. They're that garbage. I really don't even know. I might draw them wrong, this RSI thing, that squiggly things that I see, MACD or whatever they are, or some sort of trend line or whatever. Are you looking at that stuff when you're placing aggression on eBay? Of course not. You're looking at where transactions, you do it yourself, right? You go and do what? Search iPhone, search this and scroll down and where's it selling? Where's transactions taking place? Guys, I've been trying to say this since the start of the course. You're using market profile. Do you remember that four-part video series I did, the free one, and I said the answer's right in front of you. You're participating in the price determination every day. This is what you're doing. You're not using this stuff. So I said I wouldn't indicate a bash, but what can I do? Every opportunity, it just markets presenting me. It's almost like the market's telling me to do it, right? I mean, it's there. So that's a balanced market. So what I want to do now is I think I've beaten this thing as much as I can about what balance is and clearly that there's no one particular price at which we can determine value and that. However, we can come up with some sort of idea of what fair value is on any given, not only day, but any given time period that we decide. Because you could actually, in theory, cut this up and I don't really want to get into the imbalanced stuff too much, but I just want to make sure that you don't get obsessed with it being over any particular time period. I mean, you could argue, look, can you see balance there? You can see the market was trying to find some balance. There's balance there, but that's, we will get onto this and, you know, I don't want you getting too excited and thinking, oh my God, I found it, the holy grail, because you haven't, because what you'll see is it can get, financial markets are incredibly complex. So you can see that's two balances within overall balance. So, you know, we'll obviously get onto this when we're determining strategy and I'll show you what financial professionals do to overcome this problem, because, like I said, markets aren't perfect. They're not sitting there thinking, let's balance over a day. No, they're doing what on earth they want, because they're obviously efficient price determination entities, almost some sort of entity in themselves, but determining by buyers and sellers, obviously actions and supply and demand, obviously trying to meet at all times. But so what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you basically how this works now in terms of, and this is a really exciting moment for me, and I hope it is for you when you see this, I'm going to show you the transition now from depth of market to a chart and how basically we start to determine this area of value. Okay, so I know I keep repeating the point, but I'm sure you'd rather I do it too many times than not enough times. So let's go back to this point. And we said that some way we know lots of transactions took place here. We know in this approximate area that value is, but how do we determine this area? How do we know it's not this area? How do we know it's not this area, as in this area here? How do we know it's not this area here? How do we know it's not, sorry, and I hope you see what I'm doing here, how do we know it's not and in fact, let me just do that again because that's incredibly messy. How do we know that value is not, you know, this area here? How do we know it's not? So then we can get rid of those. How do we know it's not this area here? Et cetera, et cetera. So we need to find some sort of methodology to tell us what approximately value is and we're going to do that in the next section. But what I want to do is, what I should have said before and I went a little bit off topic there, is I want to show you is I want to show you basically now, we're done with the depth of market, so I want to show you how I look at the depth of market on a chart, okay, and why I don't use the depth of market anymore. So we talked about obviously balance, right, on this E-mini S&P chart, but have you noticed something? I haven't really talked about the depth of market. Can you see this is today's E-mini S&P, right, and we can see it's balanced, we've talked about it now about a thousand times, but some of you, I'm hoping and thinking, hang on a minute, NV, you're telling us that's the E-mini S&P, but I'm looking at today's E-mini S&P and I see it, I see profile massive here, okay, so now I'm going to show you, this is what is really exciting for me to show you, because honestly for years I've been wanting to scream this out to someone, but no one would listen to me because they're too busy putting squiggly lines on their charts. How do you get this, which has been happening here, onto here, all right, so I'm going to let the video play and I'm going to show you basically what, not only me, but I'm going to be open and honest with you. All market professionals in institutions are doing and why so many look at market profile and obviously why I've moved on from the depth of market onto the chart. So I'm going to show you this, so I'm going to talk whilst it plays and just look at this, right, we want to get this volume profile onto there, right, so what I'm going to do is, so firstly what I'm doing is, can you see I'm scrolling up and down because I'm showing you, basically what I just did there, if we just rewind that, is I'm showing you that actually look, this is today's E-mini S&P market, but on my depth of market it goes, you've seen this isn't it, the depth of market for E-mini S&P, those of you who have done the exercises, the volume profile, it isn't this small, is it, it's massive, it goes all the way up, it goes all the way down, so how do I get it onto the chart, right, so that's the bit I'm trying to show you, look how long it is, obviously I need to squeeze it, right, so I'm going to squeeze it in a second, hopefully, okay, and just to show you that it is the same, you can see it here, 2782 just transacted and you can see it there, yeah, 2782, it's exactly the same, this chart, you'll see it flickering at the same time, so just make sure you're comfortable that it is the same thing, okay, so again I'm just showing you how actually the volume profile on the depth of market is so long, how do I deal with that issue, okay, and you remember I was saying that opportunities at individual price points have been killed because there's so much supply, very difficult, it's already efficient at individual price points, so this is why I moved on to charts and I'm only talking just to give it commentary, there you go, so can you see what I've done there, I've squeezed it, can you see what's happening guys, that is that, and don't worry, don't take my word for it, never take my word for anything, I want you to do this exercise, I'm going to show you and I'm never satisfied people taking my word for something, I never took anyone's word for something when they told me I wouldn't prove it to myself, I'm going to prove it to you and then I want you to prove it to yourself as well, so don't worry, it's not going to end here and I just want you to take my word for it that that is this, I'm going to show you and I'm going to actually bring this onto the chart and I'm going to show you how it's done and this is the start of your volume profile career essentially, so what I did is I went into chart and I went into study settings, okay, and that is I believe is F6, I pressed F6 because I'm so used to pressing the shortcut, but what you need to do is basically is you need to go into chart and there's this thing called study settings, okay, and I want you to do this, I'm going to put the template so I'll let you do it, so what you do is you go into the study settings and you'll see basically that what I've done is, obviously there's a volume profile attached onto this, when I was building this out for you guys, I obviously attached the volume profile and it's this thing, it's called volume by price, I want you to double click on that, okay, because what we've basically got is we've got numbers, can you see we've got these numbers at each individual level, now when we're so precise and we're looking at individual levels, we want to see the numbers, I want to know 11,000 contracts, I want you to see I'm moving away from that, do you remember I told you we're going to build up context, order flow, five percent of it and we're going to come back out, this is what we're doing, so I don't want to see all these numbers, they're meaningless, do you see they're just all scrunched up, so I'm going to show you I'm getting rid of the numbers, that's all I'm doing, so what you need to do, you double click on this, okay, and there's the settings in there and you go down and I'm sorry I know this is here, but I want it to stay there because I want to prove my point and there'll be this thing, can you see it says display volume in bars, total volume, I want you to get rid of that and put nothing or whatever it is, I can't remember exactly, there you go, it's none, see that, I changed it to none from total volume to none and you're going to see all these numbers disappear, all it is is just no longer telling me the exact number of contracts, press play, okay, do you see that, it's gone, okay, so that's the volume profile, it's the same thing, I haven't changed anything, okay, now I'm going to prove it to you that this, what you see go from, you know, the whole thing up and down from top to bottom is this, what you see here, so what I've done is I've made it wider because I want you to really, I want to show you, can you see it, how I'm developing that, so actually, unfortunately I will have to get rid of this because I've changed this, and let me rewind this, actually this may be, like I said I don't script any of this so I don't actually know if this will look annoying, oops, it did actually go a little bit further than I wanted it to, so, okay, so, you know we had the, oh god I've drawn that terrible, sorry, this is why I never took art or became an artist, because I'm terrible at drawing these things, or, you know, perfect shapes or whatever, so that's the volume profile as we said, you know, with volume here, transactions, market orders, as you should know, right, so what I'm going to do next is I'm going to bring this onto my chart, okay, so that's what I said, big moment guys, this is the first part of your volume profile career, so it should be an exciting moment for you, but I'm going to show you how I did that, so, again, I brought chart studies, which is F6, so it's, instead of going here, chart, you go onto the graph, obviously, because now we're on the graph, and I want you to click on chart, and look, if it isn't, don't worry, I'm trying not to be too precise, because I want you to get a feel for Sierra trial, I want you to see how amazing this thing is, if something isn't clear, you can always ask me, but fiddle around with it, if it's not clear, have a look, try and find it, the studies, chart studies, that you can add on, anyway, settings, and actually, I think, oh yeah, there you go, so what I did is, basically, I've unhidden it, so can you see, because I wanted to do this example, I already had a volume profile on here, but what I did is, I hid it, so when I give you this template, what should I do, should I show it unhidden, I don't know what I'm going to do, maybe, I'll probably show it hidden, so you go through the process of unhiding it, yeah, let's do that, so you unhide it, as I'm doing here, okay, and then I'm going to click okay, and can you see it's disappeared, okay, so this, that I was drawing by hand, is now here, now I'm going to finally prove to you that this is this, you know, as you saw it, so let's just recap, right, would you agree that this was that chunky thing with all the individual numbers, all I've done is I've scrunched it up, look, can you see the depth of market, scrunched, and it's allowed me to look at value for the entire day, scrunched up, okay, so I'm going to get rid of this now, and we're just going to focus on this, I'm going to press play, and just show you, what is, I wanted to go through a process of trying to make them look identical, I actually like to look at it like this, because I don't care about individual increments, you know, I told you I don't care about individual prices, but let me prove it to you anyway, that they're identical, so I go through this process here of trying to get them to match, okay, so I go into settings, I go to subgraphs, you can slow this down, I've changed some colours around, okay, and I'm actually checking, I believe the colours on this as well, so actually, I'm sorry, I know I keep stopping and rewinding, but let me just show you what I did here, yeah, can you see it there, studies F6, so before I had the shortcut, I was pressing F6, as I said F6 before, that's why, so studies F6, okay, that's what you need to press, or you can go in there, chart studies, to get this, the study section up, okay, so I'm just checking the colours, basically, there, so I'm just checking, what's the colours, and so I can match it, and actually just double check and show you, okay, so I've gone to match the colour, I've clicked okay, can you see, starting to really take shape now, okay, I think we're pretty much there, just playing around with the scaling and stuff, so all right, so that's where I stopped, so can you see, look, it's exactly the same, yeah, you can see it's identical, there, there, it's exactly the same, so all that's happened is, this is the depth of market, this is the depth of market, right, this is what I had you guys on, and if you don't understand that, that means you haven't done the foundation course, if you've done the foundation course, and done all the exercises, and you still don't understand that, contact me, and we will talk, and I'll do my best to help you understand it, but if you haven't done the exercises, then you need to do the exercises, otherwise it's not going to make sense to you, that, I don't want you to think, oh, there's a tool here, and we can add, no, forget about that, I want you to be thinking, this is the depth of market, as in the market order transactions that have taken place, today, Envy's put it on a chart, why am I doing that, because what did I say, we're not interested in individual price levels, I want to look at the market, the way I've just been describing for the last four hours in unit one and unit two, I want to look at value over some sort of period of time, okay, do you agree, when I had the depth of market widened out, I couldn't do that, could I, I couldn't pick nice areas, I'm not a dome trader anymore, right, I like to trade value on a chart, because as I said, I've now transitioned, I talked a lot about this in the intro section, I've transitioned from someone who's looking at this on a very minutiae basis, to actually starting to understand the market, and in fact, my understanding of the market is infinitely better now, because I actually understand the market from an entire perspective, why, because I've now started to come out of the individual price levels, the only way you're going to do that is what, by looking at fair value over the whole day, rather than just looking at little pockets, so what I've done is, as you can see, I've moved that onto there, I'm not really interested in this anymore, because I can see this, and instead of wasting my time staring at this thing for hours on end, I can just see straight away what's been going on throughout the day here, 10 years ago, yeah, I would have wanted to see the supply as well, I've already said it umpteen times, we don't need to see the supply, so what we're going to do is, basically, I think, unless I'm mistaken, this is one of the last times I'm ever going to show the depth of market, so, you know, big moment, you know, we've now got this amazing transactional data that Amazon have in their systems, that Tesco have in their systems, we've now doing the same thing that proper businesses are doing, we've got transactional data, and we're going to use that, right, to determine now where the market sees fair value, and final point, whilst I've got the depth of market here, so, actually, what I did is, I was looking at the depth of market, I'll be honest with you, and you can imagine, I didn't want to do this, because I've shown absorption and aggression already, haven't I? Guys, I can assure you, when I was watching the depth of market earlier, when the market was coming into this area, this area, this area, and look, it's been doing it here, and I can tell you the market did actually end up finishing the day here, there was a major absorption going on here, major absorption going on here, but again, I agree, absorption is happening on the supply side, and obviously, we've got people on the sell side sitting here, does that move the market? No, it doesn't, people can sit here all day absorbing, what actually moves the market? Aggression, market orders, so, I was going to show you this, but I've already showed you in the treasury example in module four, and I don't want to, and I was observing it, and it was taking, you can see here, it was quite a long period of time, about 45 minutes, I don't really want to spend 45 minutes sitting here, but, you know, you'll have to take my word for it, you can do it if you want to, but you'll see in these areas, you'll see a lot of absorption on the offer side, and then you'll see aggression coming in, in the same way you saw me fading the tops in the treasury market, so, exactly the same thing was happening in these areas, and then obviously down here as well, you've got to understand, algorithms are reading this, they couldn't care less about this little black line that you see here, it's irrelevant, they don't care, they understand, the majority of transactions have taken place here, whenever we get down here, it's cheap relative to fair value, whenever we get here, it's expensive relative to fair value, okay, it's cheap, it's expensive, it's a two-way market, same thing we spoke about, you know, like the ebay thing happening here, but obviously it's two-way, and that's all the depth of market is doing, is people are looking at this, they're looking at transactional data, in the same way you and I, we're on the depth of market, when we're trading on ebay, we're looking at transactional data, same thing, right, we're not really necessarily interested in this dot, the effect, we're interested in the cause, right, which is this, so what I'm going to do is, I'm going to really show you how important this is, by actually showing you how I look at volume profile, so, you might be thinking, why do I keep going on about this squiggly line, not being important, as in price itself, the way I talked about, don't look at price versus price, look at value, because I'm going to show you, I literally remove price from my chart, and, you know, this is going to be really eye-opening for you, and I just want to show you, I basically walk the walk, I don't just talk the talk, I mean, yeah, I produce obviously returns and stuff, but also in terms of, when I'm telling you something, I'm doing it myself, so let me just finish off this video and show you how I do that, because I want you to do that as well, so I'm going to blank this out, let's just watch this process, so what I'm going to do is, we're done, depth of market, we're done, so I'm going to get rid of the depth of market, and I also, I don't like these, the way the depth of market has these little increments here, I don't need it anymore, because I'm on a chart, and I'll show you that, why that is, so I'm really zooming out now, and like I said, I'm trying to determine value, so I'm changing it back, can you see I've got rid of these little increments, I don't want it, it's too distracting, I'm just looking very roughly at where value is, and now what I'm going to do, I'm going to maximise it, guys, and I'm actually going to delete the price, okay, because what it is, this allows me now to look at value across time, so I'm going to delete the price, then I'm going to start talking about balance versus imbalance, because you can see here where we're going with this, I've got other profiles, other days, depths of markets, can you see on the depth of market, people who are trading depth of market, they don't see this, they're not looking at previous days, I'm going to show you, they're absolutely right, our previous days, I'm going to show you, they're absolutely crucial, so what I'm doing here, sorry, I know I love to talk, don't I, it's markets, I love markets, I could talk about them all day, what it is, is basically to change this and make it, no, in fact, I'm sorry, you know, this is how unscripted this stuff is, I don't know if you watch this video back, I just remember what I did, I circled that for a reason, but you'll see why when we get to the imbalance section, what I'm going to do is, I hope that's what I'm going to do, this graph draw type, I'm going to change it to blank, because I want to get rid of these, so let's just do that, yeah, blank, okay, so this is basically end of the balance bit and we're going to now move on to the imbalance, but my point is this, hopefully a lot of you are like, oh, Envy makes sense now, why he's telling us about all that stuff about the price versus price is irrelevant, guys, where's the price? I want you to understand how you've been fooled, you've been brainwashed by all this crap you've been told about price bouncing at previous price, guys, it doesn't, okay, price bounces at value, previous value, the same way I kept talking about eBay, you've got to understand this, it's happening over time, so this is balance, look, there's balance on this day here, there's balance here and almost overlapping, there's balance here, there's balance here, look, for two days this market was very balanced, then we had some balance here, okay, that's what's happening, this is, it's amazing, isn't it, guys, what's that? That's the depth of market we've just been looking at, scrunched up, do you see what people don't realise and I don't know, you know, for me, obviously it wasn't necessarily that important, but, you know, when I left the depth of market and I started looking at this stuff, blew my mind, because I realised I was trading every day, you know, in these little increments here and, yeah, it was good, it was okay, but algorithms are obviously taking over supplies there, then I realised, you know what, I could do so much better if I start to actually look at the market for what it is, it's just value shifting all the time, we're getting a little bit more into imbalance here, but, and I know I keep jumping around between measuring value and imbalance, but, because what is, is we're actually going to go into imbalance first and then what we're going to do is we're going to, I'm going to show you how institutions actually measure this line, because as I said before, and I know this is getting quite long, I want to just finish off with it in balance and probably sounds like I'm jumping around a bit, but probably means if I scripted this, it wouldn't be as good, I can assure you, as what I'm telling you right now, because the way I'm telling you this is the way that I trade it, right, and if I did too much research, scripting, it just wouldn't come out right, so please forgive me for going on and on and on, but I hope that you can see it's for your benefit and you're actually finding it useful to hear me constantly say this, but how do we know whether value ends there or value ends, sorry I'm going to keep switching, or value is there, do you see what I mean, we don't know, is it there, is it between here, is it between here, same here, how do we know, I mean I've just arbitrarily drawn that line there, right, and there, and I've said, you know, majority of the market traded there, here, majority of the market traded here or here, or how do we basically determine exactly where we should put these lines? Well, luckily for you, all professional institutional platforms do it, and the good thing is every platform in the world does it the same way, it's standard deviation basically, so they'll look at that, they'll treat it as a sample obviously, which it is, it's a sample of market orders, and then they'll say, okay, do you know what, this is one standard deviation, this is one standard deviation on, you know, away from the sort of theoretical mean, and that's how they're measuring it, but, you know, I'm not saying it with much enthusiasm because I don't want to get into it right now, I just want you to know that we are going to come up with ways of measuring where, you know, regardless of what price is done, so we don't know exactly where we should put fair value, you know, this area. So, you know, to conclude on this balance bit, last thing is, can you see how irrelevant this line going up and down is? Obviously when you're taking trade entries, don't get me wrong, and you're actually trading balance back to balance, extremes of balance back into balance, then yeah, we'll look at ways and, you know, that we can try and be a little precise in terms of getting our entries, but in terms of, you know, measuring whether something is balanced or not balanced or at that 105 pounds I talked about, where's the price, guys? It isn't, you know, and just to relate it back to the last section where I said to you, you know, we're looking for almost that price on the webcam, do you remember? I said it's 105, 105, 106 and then the price moves down like this, do you remember I was saying that? And I said, well, it's easy in general businesses because you can just do this, right? All I'm doing is I'm just fitting some semblance of approximation around that. So, you know, for two days it was very similar and then over here it's like that. Okay. Now, these things do jump around, but that's because, as you know, stock market gaps and we're going to get into a lot of this. You know, there's a reason why people try and tell you this stuff's easy because that's what sells, but now you're seeing the reality of trading. There's so many, so vast area, so we're going to get into stuff about, you know, why there's gaps and regular trading hours, electronic trading hours, that sort of stuff. But for now, I think that's pretty much enough, you know, with determining fair value, not based on, you know, even the ink that you see, it's more to do with transactions. So that's why I kept hammering the point home, because can you see it's kind of a nice conclusion to everything we've talked about for four or five hours. This really brings it home that, yeah, actually, Envy isn't even looking at price. Price is irrelevant. So I really hope this is like some sort of wow moment for you where you're going to stop looking at your chart as even price. You're going to try and determine without price where is value for the day. Okay. So now we're going to just quickly go to imbalance and then we'll be done with this section. And then we can look at how do we actually determine where to put these lines in terms of, and what are they? How do we measure it? How are institutions measuring fair value? And then we'll come back to this. All right, guys. So I'll see you on the next slide. So sorry, one final point that I just remembered that I forgot to make was about this cause versus effect. So basically, what are you seeing here? You're seeing the cause, right? So each one of these is the cause. What's the effect? That's the effect. Okay. Cause, cause, cause, cause, what's the effect? Okay. So sorry to keep saying it, but you need to stop looking at the effect is what my point is. And you need to start looking at the cause and then got a fighting chance of obviously making it in the business. But you can see without looking at the cause, what have you been doing all your life whilst you've been training? Assuming you don't look at volume profile, you've just been looking at this. Can you see how meaningless it is? You've only been looking at where people have been transacting. So we'll definitely now move on to the next section. Okay, guys. So I just want to talk about imbalance here. I'm not going to spend too long because if you've understood balance, you should understand imbalance. But anyway, for completion, I want to talk about it. I'm going to do the same thing. I'm just going to do it with, you know, I mean, it's pointless when you're constantly going through five different traded goods and services. I think people get the point now. So I'm just going to talk about bread. I've done the milk already where in module four, if you don't remember, go back and check it about structural changes causing imbalances. Because if you think about it, I'm not necessarily going to put prices, but so it's about a pound, wasn't it? So there was, you know, we had the price of bread essentially fluctuating like this, didn't we? So it was between, in fact, let's just put the price, sorry, pound. Again, drawing is terrible, but between a pound and say a pound ten or, I mean, look, don't quote me on this. Obviously, it doesn't matter if the prices I'm using are identical to what I've used before. Pound and then 1.1 and 90p, right? So one pound ten, et cetera, et cetera. Right, so we have this sort of fluctuation, which we've discussed to death why supermarkets are doing that. There's not necessarily, when markets are imbalanced, any major structural reason. Yeah, suppliers, there's going to be some issues with suppliers. You might charge them a fewp extra here and there, but that's not major structural changes. I'm talking fundamental shifts will cause this market to seek what? Fair price elsewhere. It's looking to find what? Where are people, demand, willing to meet supply? And that's going to happen when that change is going to happen, really, when there's major structural shifts, right? Because if you think about it, here, the market's pretty happy. Suppliers and demanders, if there is such a word, buyers and sellers, pretty happy in this kind of range. This isn't what you'd call structural shifts, 5p, 10p here and there. Now imagine, I'm completely making this up, by the way, it doesn't matter what it is. The government says, let's say Tesco's importing bread. I'll be honest with you, I don't know if they do that. Maybe they do. They probably do get some here, some there. I don't know the exact ins and outs of the bread market. I don't trade bread. And I'm embarrassed to admit I've never really looked this up. And some of you may be laughing because maybe you know it, and I apologize, but I honestly don't. But it's irrelevant to make the point. Let's say the government decided that they were going to increase import duties significantly, like double them. Now, I don't know what import duties are on a pound of bread, but let's just make up a number and say it was 10%. And they said, right, we're going to make it 30%. What's the supplier going to do in a supplier-dominated market where they're determining the price? They're going to have to move it up, aren't they? But they don't know exactly where to, so what they're going to do, they're going to look for value. How? By testing prices, again, in certain ranges. OK, so they're going to look at, OK, where can we make a little bit of profit? It might be, you know, this 10% to 30% adds 20p, right? So, you know, about 130 in that region. But what's happened? The market's gone from balanced, it's gone imbalanced, and then it's become balanced again. OK, because how do they even know to stick here? Well, they'll be observing. Do we get market orders coming in? Do people buy this thing, right? And if not enough people buy it here, will they even put the price down? Until it settles into some sort of range. You know, it might be more volatile than that. It might go up here, it might come down here. I don't know, but that's why I take the price off my chart, don't I? I look at what? Just this, because it gets rid of all the noise. And essentially, that's what business is doing. They're going, testing the marketplace until they settle. But the point is, that's balanced. That's not balance, is it? Between 110 and 130, you know, it may not have been balanced. So, because what would have happened is, think about it, they might have put it at, you know, 120, 121, and there was a lot of aggression coming in, right? It wasn't balancing. There was aggression coming in on one side in terms of people buying it. Think about it, what's happening in the marketplace? Same thing. Market will go like this. What causes the market to go like that? Buyers, market orders, aggressive, will cause price to shift. You've seen this on the depth of market, all right? And there's no selling in terms of market orders coming in to stop this happening. Obviously, this is a one-way market, so it's slightly different. But at the end, because it's supply dominated, as I said, so that's why I had to explain the whole supply dominated thing. I didn't have to, but, you know, I've seen the way professional trading firms explain this. They won't explain this to you, by the way. They will just give you the tools and say, here's volume profile, depth of market, and obviously they'll leave you to figure it out. I'm trying to give you something like 50, 60, 70, almost 100% more than you would even get in a professional trading firm. I hope you can see that. That's why I explained the whole supply dominance, because I want you to understand how structurally these markets are different, and we're trying to close that gap. But at the end of the day, the whole sort of philosophy of what we're trying to achieve is the same as a business. But to do that, obviously, I have to explain to you that it is, in theory, supply dominated. But they're trying to achieve the same thing. They're trying to find areas where balance of demand, bulk of demand, loads of people are happy to transact. When people are happy to transact on iPhones at 1,100, that becomes the price. Obviously, as I said, in the real market, it's a bit more sticky. But in financial markets, it's a similar process. But obviously, it just happens to be gyrating a bit, as I said. So anyway, that's the imbalance because of structural issues, big fundamental shifts. Structural, maybe not the right word, but depending on how you view import tax. But because import tax is a little bit not necessarily structural in terms of marketplace, but it is, at the end of the day, having a big impact fundamentally, the way fundamentals do. So in terms of it being balanced, why is this important that we identify these areas? Because let's say now that import taxes get slashed again. Guys, I've said this before, the milk example. Do you think, do you really think that Tesco are looking at some moving average and thinking, oh, it's, you know, the moving average is up here, or the MACD, or the oversold, or some trend line meets here, or it's the 50% Fibonacci. So actually, this is the 50% Fibonacci. So let's bring the price down. As I said before, it's all garbage. No, they're looking. They're not even looking at this line. They're looking at what? Let me bring it back across. They're looking at this, guys. Where have people bought? You know, and I hope it's obvious to you, because I think the majority of you will be getting this now. Hang on, it's obvious. See, and look what people have bought bread before. Why would you look at an indicator? Where have people bought bread before? Here. So when we see these fundamental shifts, like import tax or whatever being cut again, guys, it's no different to when the Federal Reserve says, we're raising interest rates. What happens? The market tanks, because they think, oh, the cost of financing has gone up, et cetera. Businesses will suffer, bad for corporate profits. The market tanks, doesn't it? Where does it go to? Previous areas of value, where people have bought before, because what will happen? People will come in and buy again. You need to understand this. Cause, cause in terms of market orders and fundamental news. Effect is the move. Okay. So that's what's happening. It's actually value and people's perceptions of value. That's actually driving the marketplace. You have to understand that. But coming back to the bread example. So, you know, so we're saying it will come back down if there's, you know, this import tax or whatever it is, cut. Now, just to finish off with this example. So we see it both ways. What if, again, I'm making this up. Don't hold me to it, but you'll get the point. Bread, grains, the grain market collapses. It's obviously going to cause the price spread to go down, isn't it? Where to? Well, it will keep going down until buyers and sellers find some value. Can you see? All that's happening is buyers and sellers happy to transact in a certain range. Here, it's obviously more in terms of aggressive selling. Okay. And don't forget the aggressive sellers in a financial market will be market orders. In a consumer market, which is one way, it's obviously going to be Tesco. They're going to get aggressive in terms of moving the price down, right? So technically, that's what's happening. But in a financial market, obviously, as I said, there's going to be bids everywhere, isn't there? As you see on the depth of market, the supply at every level. So take aggression. It will be actual market orders driving it, as we said, 95%. And that's what's happening here. And then suddenly the grain market sorts itself out, season, weather, whatever. When do you think the market's going to go back up to? No, no trend line. None of this nonsense. It's going to go back up to here. And I can assure you that the market will start to become happy again here in this area. So what I'd like to do is, we're almost at the end. I know it's gone on for ages, but again, it's crucial. I'm going to show you this. What I actually managed to do is I found the price of bread on the Office for National Statistics. I believe they use it for inflation data or whatever. They're obviously collecting data. The basket for inflation data collects all sorts of products, milk, bread. I don't know what else there is. I used to actually have to, believe it or not, when I was in the investment bank, I used to look at a lot of this stuff, the basket, in terms of prices. They'll send out surveys and they'll do certain surveys of prices of bread, et cetera. So let me show you this here. If we go next. So what I did is I downloaded the data and I put it on a graph. So what I've got here is bread for the last 14 years. OK. I don't know. I'm not going to look. I don't want to pretend that I know the exact reasons for these shifts, but what do you think this is? Look. Some sort of balance, right? That took place between 2008 to about two years worth. Then what happened? It went imbalanced. Something structural must have happened in this market. And then what? The market was happy, guys. The trade. You've got to understand that when you're using, and I know I keep saying it, but I really want 100% of people watching this to get it, not 99. It's not good enough. I want 100% of people to understand. When using technical indicators on a chart, you're using technical indicators on this bread market. That is how ridiculous it is. There's a structural change here. OK. The cause was what? Something that happened off the chart. Fundamentally, A, B, obviously suppliers for change price happened off the chart, as we said. What was the effect? This little blue line. It's just the effect. OK. And then again, what was the cause of this line to go up and down? Transactions, right? Moving up and down. Then the structural shift that took place here disappeared. I could probably find out what it is. I haven't because it's irrelevant. The point is there was a structural shift. The market went imbalanced again and then found balance. But where? Where did it find balance? Look. Same as before. Got to understand that's what the market's doing. It's going imbalanced and it's going to seek areas where what? Buyers and sellers come back in. And typically, those places tend to be where it's happened before, right? It's the obvious place for markets to go to. I really hope you can see this because this is going to be the cornerstone of how, obviously, I show you that professional institutions are trading using market volume profile and market profile. But it's also how I view the market. Now, when you go to a professional institution, it may not be explained to you this way. But to be fair on them, this is what their algorithms are doing. They're looking to see is the market balanced? Is it imbalanced? If it's imbalanced, where have we been balanced before? And don't forget, they're not looking at this blue line. They're simply looking at where have transactions taken place before. So finally, what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you this imbalanced phenomenon on a real chart. OK, this is the last time I'm going to look at things like bread and so on and so forth, I think. I've actually done the normal distribution where we go the sort of value determination where we're going to get into some theoretical statistics, which is going to get quite heavy. But once we move away from that, we're definitely not looking at anything but financial markets. But I think this is the last time we're going to look at this. But obviously, what I want to do is I just want to show you imbalance on a financial market. So we'll do that now. Just bear with me as I bring that across. OK, guys, so I just loaded up the same thing where we left off before when we were looking at the balanced example. And remember, that was essentially today, which was the falling profile from today's depth of market. And these are obviously just falling profiles from previous depth of market. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to hit play. I'm going to show you how I actually look at volume profile, how I have it up, because even for me, this is it's too big. I like to see volume profiles over a bigger period of time to get real feel for how the market is balancing and imbalancing and shifting where it sees fair value, you know, according to obviously decisions that are going on off the chart. But we can talk a little bit about that later. But let me just hit play, because I've obviously put this template and I want you to do this. I'm going to show you how I scrunched them up because, you know, Sierra Chart doesn't like it because it's a minute chart. You need to go into chart, chart settings where you can hit F5. And what I've done there, can you see? I've changed it from minutes to days. OK, so you need to change one day and then get rid of the minute. So it's one day, hit OK and then refresh. Depending on how much data you've got loaded, I've got quite a bit of data loaded. It takes a few seconds for it to shift it into the daily data. But just think about it, when you've got a minute based chart, it likes to give it a bit of space for all the candles. Obviously, when you're looking on a minute basis, I'm just looking at what profile for the day, essentially. So that's what it's done there. So you see this. And if you go down, you press control and drag your mouse across, you can expand it almost. So it was a bit fiddly, as you can see. I don't want to edit this stuff out. I want you to see, you know, can get a bit fiddly sometimes. So here I am trying to mess about, trying to get it to scale out. But it is a bit tough when you first do it. But there you go. So I've got it eventually to get the scale so I can see all this data. So what this is, is this is really the S&P market over, you know, about the last year. And it's all the domes, essentially daily depth of markets. Amazing, isn't it? Because how would you see that? You see, when you're on the dome, on the depth of market, this is what I say to you. I don't want you to worry about making money on the depth of market. Hopefully you can see it now. Why? I just don't look at it anymore. I'm looking at things much more powerful. I'm looking at the depth of market over periods of time. That's what I'm doing. And that's how I'm building context. You see the bottom of the triangle? We're going to build context. So I'm just adjusting it. And you can go through this process. I think I'll spend a few seconds just messing about, getting until I'm happy with how the scaling is. But these are just depth of markets. And you can see these are the causes. I'm moving away from the effect. I'm not interested in, you know, a bit of ink on my chart. What is it telling me? It's not telling me anything. I want to know what's driving that. What's actually causing that thing to be the effect, to move around. So I'm just messing around here. I want you guys to do the same thing as I do. I only really do this once, obviously, in a lifetime, because the rest of the time, I just have it on my chart, on my chart set up eventually towards the end of the pro course. Sorry to burst your bubble. I always say we're miles away from me showing you my complete value approach. But this is the very foundation of it. So eventually, you'll see everything I look at. But it's all pretty much, once it's all scaled and set up, that's it. I don't change it again. So I think I was pretty happy there. Just doing a bit of circling there to show you balances. But essentially, this is what I'm looking at. Okay. So powerful. I can now see balance on a much broader perspective and try to start to build context. Because think about it. I can see there was balance here. And we're going to look at ways where I'll show you how to measure this. Obviously, I'm eyeballing it right now. And if the market comes up here, either I think it's going to come off it, or if it manages to get into this area, should do what? Balance in this area. Okay. So it could go imbalanced, right? As we've said, to seek. Why would it go from balance? This is today, right? Do you remember? We looked at this. This is today's depth of market on the S&P that you're looking at, that big column. I've just scrunched it up. And that's it. That is today's depth of market, guys. Market orders. So it may not be the same day, obviously, when you carry out this process. But you need to realise that is today's market orders scrunched up. Why would it go imbalanced? Some structural shift, fundamental shift. Look, I'm going to be honest with you. I don't really care about on a day-to-day basis anyway, what necessarily is going on in terms of economic impact. Because I truly believe, and my P&L shows it, that it's reflected in what? Transactional data, right? At the end of the day, if you think about it, you know, if in the open marketplace, people are willing to buy something, does it matter why the price has shifted? Or does it matter if people are actually willing to buy it? You've heard this thing about property, isn't it? You hear it all the time. People say, oh, the fair price for property is this. But then someone comes along, it doesn't matter what the fair price is. The price of property is what someone's willing to pay for it. Exact same thing. I'm not only a strong believer, I actually walk the walk, as you see, I produce real income that obviously, you know, pays for things in my life based on that thought process. So I back it up by trading that way. But we'll get a little bit into that further on. But I just want you to realise that it is those things off the chart in terms of fundamentals that are driving it. But it's also what? Real transactions. It's those two factors. So it's fundamentals, but reflected in people's buying habits, behaviours, not squiggly lines, behaviours. So it's imbalance going to balance. You see it everywhere. Look at this. Can you see three days of balance? Now, I'm going to show you some amazing stuff, which I kind of have been shown to a little bit of an extent, but I've developed myself as well. And, you know, that's why I say, be discreet with this stuff. I'm going to show you how I merge these things together and really look for trading opportunities. So I know it's a lot to listen to what I'm saying. But when I come to show you trading opportunities, all this theory stuff and me talking to you is going to pay off. So you can see individual balance, but you can also see balance there. Then we shift. We've got imbalanced, imbalance, imbalanced, balance, imbalance. And where did the next day go back to? Look, where previous balance was. Then it moved up. Where did it trade? Where previous balance was. Then we shifted up. Imbalance. You know, because I admit something obviously happened here. Federal Reserve, jobs data, whatever it is, it doesn't matter because at the end of the day, what really matters is what are people willing to pay for one unit of the S&P 500. And that's reflected in what? Market orders. OK, so we saw market orders go imbalanced, an imbalance of buyers. It's not buyers versus sellers. It's an imbalance. This is so important. I've mentioned this throughout. What's actually happening if you think about it? Why is it called an imbalance? What is it an imbalance of? Think about it for a second. It's an imbalance of market orders, buyers versus market orders, sellers. That is the imbalance you see on the footprint. It's the imbalance. It's not buyers versus, it's not more buyers versus sellers, it's more buyers placing market orders than sellers placing market orders. Because at the end of the day, buyers placing market orders are still doing what? Someone selling to them. So there is no buyers more than sellers. You've got to get this other myth out of your head. You know, how many times have people told you, not only in retail circles, sometimes I hear it in institutional circles, people who don't understand the market properly saying, or you hear it on Bloomberg as well, or CNBC, more buyers than sellers. Garbage. You see it on the depth of market. There is no buyers versus sellers imbalance. It's market orders, isn't it? It's more aggression on the buy side, market orders, than there is aggression on the sell side. Can't say that enough. Hope you get that. That's why it's called imbalance, right? We talk about in the footprint. I don't know if you've done the footprint, but there's imbalances. It's imbalances. And then suddenly you get a balance. And what happens when market orders in terms of buys and sells become very balanced? You start to get what? These big chunks of volume taking place. You saw it on the treasury market. How boring was it at balanced areas? It's just a very happy market. Aggressive buyers, aggressive sellers. And how many times have I said it? I hope you can understand now why I say it. Market orders, they're all that matters. Cares about supply. Care about the passive side of the market. Care about aggression, because aggression is causing balance and imbalance. And look here, balance. And I'm going to show you how I actually trade this. I do merge these together. And they become very powerful balance areas that I look for the market to get imbalanced out of and break out and go imbalanced. And I'd look for trading opportunities. And I'm going to show you that. And if you see here, look where the market ended up. This is an indicator. The market dropped down here. It saw that it was at the edge of balance and decided to go up. Guys, I can't tell you enough. Every single institutional algorithm is looking at this, is measuring balance and imbalance. OK, so that's the end of balance and imbalance. That's the end of me comparing all the markets to this and that. We're just going to do normal distribution. It's going to be a bit of theory. But I have to show you how these value areas, they're called value areas, basically, because it's value, how it's measured by institutions. And then we're going to get straight on into developing a framework of how to trade. OK, so I hope that was good. I know it was long, but, you know, I hope you don't mind me saying this, but I really like to share this with you, especially those of you who have watched this right to the end. You know, I was thinking about it today. I was realising that, you know, and I hope you can see, and it's obvious not only through the statements, the audited stuff that I produce, but also through my knowledge. You can see, guys, I make much more out of this, I'm going to be frank with you, than I do from, you know, receiving income from selling these courses. But what it is, is I cannot tell you how, when I see, because obviously, as you know, this pro course was built, you know, I'd already had a lot of pre-orders for the foundation course before the pro course was even built. And it's been so much interest, I can't tell you how grateful I am, even though necessarily, my point is from an income perspective, I'm obviously earning significantly more from financial markets, but I can't tell you how grateful I am that people, you watching this right now, have spent a lot of money to get knowledge. And as I said in the four-part video series that I did, and you know, I hope most of you have seen that, where I said in the first part, you know, I've truly believed that people need to earn the right to spread education. And, you know, I feel like the fact that you've rewarded me in terms of paying me, it doesn't matter how much it is, or whether I earn more out of trading the financial market or not, I really feel like I need to earn that money that you've paid me. And I truly value that, I want you to know that, that's why I spent so much time, however long this has taken, hour, two hours, or whatever it was, because I really feel that I want to give people their money's worth. And I just want you to know that, you know, before I press end, that I really do respect every penny, or cent, or whatever it is, you know, one euro, one dollar, one pound, every pound that I'm paid, I really hold it in high regard, and I really value it. And I know that for many of you, you've wasted a lot of money on trading education, and I don't want you to, you know, do that anymore. And that's why I'm doing this, because I really want to get these points across, and hopefully that'll be the last money you spend in terms of education, and you go on to now educate yourself based on obviously the stuff I'm teaching. So I just wanted to say that, because I think it's important you realise that I do acknowledge, you know, for a lot of people, spending, you know, a significant amount of money on a course is a lot of money for them, and so I feel like I really owe it to you that's watching this, that I should give you, you know, as much information as I can. That's why I talk a lot and go through it again and again, not because, you know, I just enjoy talking for the sake of it. So, you know, I appreciate you putting up with me, but I hope you see also I'm trying to do it for those reasons and for your benefit, and it's important. So we'll see you in the next section. I'm going to take a few well-deserved days off. I'd suggest you do the same. Take a bit of time off. Let it all absorb. Think about the cause and effect stuff I talked about. Watch it back if you need to, and yeah, thanks a lot, and see you in the normal distribution section.