Hello traders, welcome to the next section. I hope you've done the same thing as me and taken a few days off after that heavy, very heavy, auction market theory, but I hope you can see you're well worth it and you're not going to find any of that stuff anywhere. Not even in a professional firm are they going to teach you to that level, anywhere near that level, let's be honest. They're going to give you basic concepts, but obviously the majority of the stuff that I've shown you, that comes from many years of observation and figuring things out myself. That's the way it should be. When you go to a professional firm, obviously they're going to give you building blocks, but you need to go out there and observe things and figure things out for yourself. But obviously the reason I do it is, I don't want you to do what I did. It took me many years to figure a lot of things out. Whilst I was lucky, because my day job was trading at the end of the day, so I had trading as an income, depth of market, and even when I was transitioning from depth of market into trading on charts, obviously to keep an income going I continued to, whilst I figured stuff out, I continued to trade the depth of market. So I had an income, I had exposure to the markets all the time, which afforded me several years to really hone my understanding of auction market theory. I hope you can see it's probably up there, not in an arrogant way, but I think I've proved it by giving you a good, I think what was it, about six hours or more worth of stuff that you're just not going to find out there. So hopefully you found that valuable, and again, hopefully, like me, you've taken a bit of a breather. I think it's important, let it settle in before moving on, because we are going to now really start ramping up the pace and the theory was incredibly important. I cannot stress that enough, and you may not realise that right now, but you'll realise it as you develop in your career, just how important a lot of the theory was, because the main thing is, and I saw it time and time again, you'll be surprised, even in institutions, I've seen, I told you the failure rate, I've been quite honest, the failure rate is very high, and I think I've given you some reasons for that. I think another major reason is that even people coming into institutions make the indicator mistake, in the sense that they treat a lot of the stuff that we're about to look at as an indicator, and I'm going to talk about that. Now if I hadn't given you the theory, and I'd just done what most, in fact all, let's be honest, every single volume profile, market profile, does out there, and I mean from institutions, it's a mistake I think that they make is that they just teach you, this is market profile, this is volume profile, that actually, you know, explains to you how this is, what is going on in the marketplace, because then what happens is you stop treating profile as an indicator, and you give it the credence that it deserves, and you really understand the power of it, that it's way more than just, you know, some point of control and value area lines which we'll discuss, and I mentioned this in the normal distribution section that, you know, one of the dangers people sort of fall into a trap is they use these value areas as, you know, holy grail lines, and they're not, because if you do that, you might as well have an indicator, what's the difference, right? So this is why I give you all that theory, because I don't want you to fall into that trap, I want you to, when you get into the game, understand it for what it is, which is that it's just a rough idea of where, obviously, value is in terms of the value areas, but more than that, I want you to really understand what profile is telling you, and not fall into the traps that I see many institutional traders themselves fall into, where they try to be very precise with shapes and things, which I'm going to discuss again in the next section. So, look, I didn't want to go off topic, but I just wanted to say this at the start, because you've just come off the back of theory, I wanted to just kind of say, look, if you stuck with it, well done, because it's really going to help you as you develop as a trader, and you may not see that 100% now, but you certainly start to see that later on in your career over the next few months and years, and if you do make it eventually, I think it's going to be, you'll realise just how important a lot of that theory was. But look, going forward, I did say that at the start of every section, I'm going to pull out the institutional roadmaps, right, so we've got it here, this is what I put together, and I said in the introduction that this is really how I saw the top, the very, very top traders approaching their day in a very, I'm hesitant to say methodical or structured, because you'll see, and I've said it many times, our approach to markets, at least on the chart, it's not A plus B must equal C, you know, you've got to be careful about all of that stuff. As I just mentioned, you don't want it to treat it like an indicator and be too precise. However, in terms of actually approaching the day when you're off the chart, in terms of your planning, preparation, very important to be quite structured in terms of your approach and making sure you're, you know, approaching the market in a very structured way off the charts, not necessarily on the chart, but off the chart. And we'll talk a little bit about this, you know, it comes down to journaling and obviously recording statistics and making sure you prep, I guess that's the word I was looking for, your prep needs to be very structured, but your actual approach to markets when you're on the charts, obviously that should be very loose. So what we've done is we've covered so far is ultra market theory, right, it's about 50% of this section, it's a huge part of this section. So you've got all the theory out of the way, you've got 50% if not more out of the way. What we're now going to do is we're really going to focus, and we've obviously looked at volume profile in depth, obviously we're going to refer back to it, but in terms of actually covering the theory, that's a tick in the box and that's a tick in the box. So now what we're going to do is we're really going to start thinking, how can we transfer a lot of this into actually building contextual levels, looking at areas to conduct business in, that's why we're in this business, right. But the thing is, all the stuff you've been doing up until now, I hope you haven't been frustrated because if you've done it, as I've said, really I want to say well done because you're approaching this game as a business, as a professional now. You see, what it is, is people will think yes, now we're getting on to trading and actually what you've got to realise is you've been trading, the business plan was trading, understanding time and sales, obviously you didn't actually physically execute on it, that was trading, okay. Auction market theory, in my opinion, is just as important and it's just as much trading as what we're about to do, which is also trading, but it's more obviously building strategy. So, you know, I'd sort of make that important point that it's not that we're now suddenly going to start trading, you know, you have been trading, believe me, all this time you've been doing things that only the people who succeed in this business do. The people, which is, let's be honest, 99%, if not more, you know, this number of 90% don't make, it's actually very, that's a misleading, it's actually much higher and I can show you stats that show that actually the failure rate is much higher than this 90% number you hear and let's be honest, a lot of the reason for that is because they haven't done all the stuff that you've been doing up until now. So look, great job, but yeah, look, we are going to get on the charts now, okay, and we are going to start building contextual levels and that's what we're getting into. What I want to do is in this section is I want to get onto market profile. Now, there is going to be a bit of theory for market profile, obviously there has to be. I don't want to just say this market profile, you know, boom, when this happens, you do this. No, because again, you can treat it like an indicator. It's important I at least give you some basic theory of market profile and I'm going to see how long this section takes. You know, like I said, I don't really structure them. Having said that, obviously, I've taken some time off to make sure that what I'm giving you is very well thought out and I've been thinking a lot over the last few days when I took a break from ultra market theory, how can I deliver this and make sure that everyone's getting literally every penny or cent worth, like times 10, you know, so you will get that. It's not that I haven't planned it, it's just that I don't obviously know how long it's going to take me to explain certain things. So, let's see how long it takes, but the aim essentially, if not in this section, very much so in the, what I'll do is I'll either do the market profile section as one section or I'll split it out into two and the second bit or the second half of this bit. Very much. We're going to start building levels for you to start trading for areas. OK, so areas of interest and it will be brilliant. You'll enjoy it and you're going to see it's going to make a lot of sense. So what we'll do then is we'll, let's start, we'll come back to this, we'll come back to VWAP and I may even move VWAP into this section. And there's a reason for that, which will become very clear, but I won't mention it now. But let's basically finish off these two, I believe, and then we're pretty much done with the context section. So we'll start with market profile. So I'm going to flip to the next slide and yeah, we'll take it from there and see how it goes. OK, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the market profile section. And sorry, I know I did like a 10 minute intro into it, like I always do to get started. But, you know, I hope you can see the benefit in that. I just want to encourage those that, you know, stuck with the theory that, you know, well done, you know, you're doing it the right way and you're just increasing your chances. You know, obviously, there's no guarantee that this is something that you will turn into a career. Hopefully you do. Fingers crossed. But it's certainly going to increase your chances if you're absorbing all the theory. So really, it's just to give you a bit of encouragement, you know, that keep going and you're doing the right things and obviously well done. So it's a bit embarrassing to say, but obviously, a lot of you are probably older than me. I mean, I'm pretty old myself, but a lot of you will be older than me. And so I feel a bit embarrassed to say, you know, well done, et cetera, et cetera. But the reality is I am. You know, that's what you're paying me for, to be your teacher. And obviously, when it comes to everything else in life, I'm probably useless. But when it comes to trading, obviously, probably do have more experience than most people. So it's important that I give words of encouragement. So, you know, I hope you don't feel like I'm treating you like a child. I'm not. I'm just trying to genuinely give you some encouragement to just keep going on without skipping things and, you know, just say, well done for sticking with all the theory, et cetera. And what we're going to do is we are going to have a little bit of market profile theory. Again, I know I said that the theory was pretty much over, but like I said, it's important. You know, if I just start showing you market profile and we just crack on, it's not really going to make sense to you, is it? Let's be honest. You can see here I've got volume profile, which we were used to seeing in the last section. And then I've got market profile. So you can see they're very similar. But why are they similar? What's all these A's and B's and C's? And what is all this stuff going on? Right. It's important you know that. I mean, in theory, I could just think, well, you know what? They've had enough theory. Let's just crack on. No, it's not going to do you any favours. It's important that I explain to you exactly what this is and why it looks similar, but it isn't the same. And why would I not? Why am I not just using this and continuing? Why am I even looking at market profile if they're so similar? So, you know, I've got to tell you some of that stuff. And that's really the aim of the first half of this. And like I said, I'm not sure if it will be all together. I may split it out into two parts, but let's see how we get on. So what I want to do on this slide anyway is I'm not going to just literally get straight into it. I want to give you a feel for what to expect in this section. So in this section, essentially what we're going to go through first and what I'll do is I'll go through this top half in this actual section. The rest of it, I'll obviously go through. I've made some very basic slides. So we'll cover everything from here downwards. We're going to have separate slides for, but I just want to cover this bit on this actual slide. So what it is, is when you enter a professional trading firm, I mentioned this to you, I can't remember where, but in one of the auction market theories, I said, you know, there's some books, I hope I did anyway, that are considered compulsory reading in professional firms. And one of those is Market Wizard. So I mentioned that to you. And I said, you know, I obviously worked with someone who was in this book and I gave you the story about the 50-50 price, an individual price, obviously the probabilities of 50-50 of up and down moves. And I spoke about that. So I'm only mentioning it here because there's a couple of books that I'm going to, I don't know if recommend is the right word, but at least suggest you have a brief look at when it comes to market profile. So I thought, you know what, why don't I just cover off the books here? So the main books, and there are a couple of others, but the problem with some of the books is they're, I don't want to sound rude, but they are a bit wishy-washy. I'll be honest with you. Even Market Wizards to some extent, did I really learn anything from it? No. You know I'm a very honest guy. I'd be lying if I told you I learned anything from that book. I didn't. It was just good to read and kind of, it was a good read, yeah, just to see what different traders are doing. But there was no strategy in there. It was more like interviewing them. And they gave a lot of the cliches, you know, the trading cliches that, I don't know if you watch on Instagram, you get some of those Instagram posts going up and down, and they have like quotes on them. And I know I do quotes myself, but I hope you agree, I do institutional quotes. But some of the quotes, let's be honest, they're just ridiculous, you know, like leave your emotions at the door and all that stuff. Does that really help you? No, it's not. It's not going to really help you become a better trader. And that's kind of what a lot of the books they recommend to you, I found, were. And Market Wizards, if there was one out of all of the sort of wishy-washy books that they recommend, I'd say, you know, read Market Wizards if you want. It's a decent read. But if you don't, honestly, it's going to make no difference. So I thought I'd just mention that, you know, it is one of the books that essentially, if you're going to sign a professional firm, they'll make it compulsory reading. They'll say, you've got to read Market Wizards. But I think more interesting is these two books. Now, I've actually done an Instagram IGTV video. It's only about eight, nine minutes long where I talk about these books and their pitfalls and obviously advantages. So if you get a chance, do that. Go to my IGTV. If you don't use IGTV, let me know. I might be able to, if enough people or if anyone contacts me, I might just upload it to the Pro Course, one of the sections as a download if you want it. I might do that. In fact, I'll probably, I might do that. Yeah, let's see if anyone contacts me. If they do, then I'll do that. Otherwise, just go to my IGTV. It's, I think it's called Institutional Books. I can't remember. But I talk about these books. And basically, these are the Bibles on Market Profile. They're very, very good as a starter. And I talk about this in the section. The problem is with them is they're incredibly dogmatic. Okay. So I'm going to talk about this quite a lot in a reality check video that I want to do. And it's about theory versus reality. Okay. So the best way to explain this is that, so you're going to read these books, and I do recommend reading them. Whatever you do, don't buy them. I think some of these are quite expensive, right? Basically, I probably shouldn't say this out loud, but I have noticed there's PDFs for all of these three online. So you might as well read them if you can get the PDFs. If you can't, let me know, or I'll see if I can find it. But I'm not promising anything. But if you can, highly recommend, read them. But take them with a pinch of salt. But the reason I want you to read them is, and I'm going to do a reality check on this later, is because, so what it is, is even in institutional firms, all the stuff they teach you, right, they're going to teach you everything from a theoretical perspective. And I don't think that that's necessarily a bad thing, because what happens is, and this was certainly my experience and my journey, and I think it really helped me, is that to get you from theory to reality, it requires observation, right? There's only, obviously, I can give you a lot of theory, and I can, essentially, let's be honest, what am I doing here? I'm giving you all the theory you're getting in a professional environment, that's PRO. So I'm giving you all the theory you're getting in a professional environment, and then what am I doing? I'm giving you like a thousand percent extra in terms of the things I observed. But what I would highly recommend, and again, I'm going to talk about this later, please, whatever you do, don't take my word for it. You know, and I think this was maybe, and I say there's a few reasons, but maybe one of the huge reasons why I look back on my career and I think, why am I still in trading? You know, after 16 years, as of now, you may be watching this, and it may be 20 years, 25 years, I don't know exactly, but as of me, obviously, making this video, and I think one of the reasons is I never, ever took anyone's word for anything, right? Now, I know some of you backtest some technical stuff, and you realise, if you don't mind me saying, it's garbage, but it's good, you do that. But now you've realised, I've showed you, that technicals obviously don't work, you've got to apply the same approach and vigour to everything I'm telling you. And the funny thing is, I show you, and you may think I'm going off topic here, and I'm not, it's so relevant to reading these books. You know, I'm one of the only people I know in the industry that shows, I show audited returns, obviously, you know, I'm happy to show my FX books and things like that. But even then, it doesn't matter. Don't take my word for it. Don't do due diligence, do triple due diligence. I'll tell you why. Because what I noticed is that I got taught, right, theory, for example. And yeah, I wish there was someone like me who had taught me and said, you know, these, and it would have cut my journey down big time. As I said before, I was fortunate, I had the depth of market to keep me going for a few years, whilst I figured things out. You know, and the reality is that journey was several years. Before I became incredibly proficient on the charts themselves, obviously, I was maintaining my depth of market trading to obviously keep me going from an income perspective whilst I figured things out. Now, because I've told you a lot of things, yeah, your journey may, hopefully, be cut from like three, four years down to one year. But that's only going to happen if you also do this thing where, so the way I did it, even though it took me several years to do it, is obviously, I would rethink, like, so this is getting back to the point about the book. I read Mind Over Markets, right? I read Markets in Profile. I read Steedle Meyer on markets as well. And I learned all of it, and I was looking at it, and honestly, at the end of it, 90% of it, I dumped it. But the point was, you know, when you're at this theory stage, I dumped it. Why? Because I observed it in the marketplace. Do you see what I mean? I never dumped it because my boss said to me, oh, Envy, do you know what? Dalton says this in his book, for example, Excess Matters. Now, I will explain excess to you, right? It's essentially where the market's moving like this in the profile, and then you get this little pop, and it comes back. Basically, it's like a little tail, but obviously, we will come back to this. But the point is, I never took my boss's word for it just because he told me that, oh, excess is useless. Don't use it. I was like, well, it doesn't matter. I observed it in the marketplace on my own. So that's the thing. In an ideal world, I'm going to be honest with you. What I would do if I was you is I would at least read, you know, skim read through it, look at some of the basics, maybe after, not now, but after I've shown you my take on profile. And guys, just do a sort of process of trial and error yourself and observe these things. And I hope you don't mind me saying that. And maybe this will become the reality check here because I realize I've talked about it. But the reality check is that, yeah, you've got to go through that process of figuring out what works and what doesn't for yourself. Don't ever take my word for it, is my point. Honestly, it's going to propel you to different levels of trading if that's how you approach things. I mean, at the end of the day, there is no, you know, sort of magic indicator out there. It doesn't exist. And if you think it does, you're going to be searching for the rest of your life and you're not going to find it. And you're going to end up coming back to doing this approach, which I say, which is look, absorb all the theory, take all the things from Berks, take all the stuff I'm giving you as well, even though I back it up with real results and whatever. It's not the point. The point is, you need to go out there and observe it and figure it out for yourself that, does this actually work? And it's going to make you an amazing trader because whilst you're doing that process, you're going to figure out other things. And you're going to see stuff that I've taught you as well. And you're going to be like, actually, do you know what? What Envy said is 100% right because I saw it a thousand times. And yeah, it makes sense. Or, so it's kind of like backtesting, but it's not, it's observing in real time. Or you're going to be thinking, actually, that thing that Envy told me, it doesn't make sense because I'm not seeding it for myself. Don't, and I know all of you won't be like this, but obviously you understand I've got to say this because a lot of people will take what I tell them about profile and what I'm doing as gospel and they're just going to use that. It's not really going to maximise their potential as a trader. That's why I say, I hope you don't mind me saying, taking a few minutes to do that, is really think about this process of absorbing theory but testing it for yourself. So read the books if you can. Take your time, read them on the way to work, read them on the train, read them here, read them there. I highly recommend that if you can, you don't necessarily need to go through them religiously and whatever, necessarily need to take notes even, but just read them and get a gist for what Dalton and Steadallmire have to say about market profile because it is interesting. And you will actually bring home a lot of the stuff I've been telling you about, how dogmatic and indicator-like even this stuff can be. And then you'll actually look back and think, yeah, do you know what, I can see that. And then start to observe it and you'll see for yourself just how powerful approaches to market can be when you move away from treating things as very rigid. But again, I guess the last thing I'll say is you need to go on that journey yourself. I can't do that journey for you. Obviously, I can tell you about it and I can warn you about it as I've been doing for like six hours and even the whole foundation course, but at the end of the day, you've got to do it yourself as well, right? That's why I say it's going to take you nine months, 12 months, because you've got to go on this journey. So I hope you didn't mind me saying that because I know what it is. A lot of people will just say, oh yeah, they're just a couple of books, forget it. No, you know, if you get a chance, go through them. You look at what theories out there and go through this journey of observation of really looking at what these books are saying and what I'm saying and observe them on a chart. So I'll do this. I probably will do this reality check again at the very end of the course, just to remind you. But I guess it just cropped up because I've mentioned the books. But anyway, you get the point. We're then going to move on in the next slide. I've covered the books and we're going to go on to looking at regular trading hours versus electronic trading hours, which is going to make sense as soon as we get on to that. Essentially, in the futures market and actually in the professional environment, these trading hours are very much split out, very different to what you're used to seeing in foreign exchange in terms of Asia and obviously coming into Europe and then UK and then obviously America and so on and so forth. It's different, OK? It's not very different, but it's slightly different. So I'm going to explain how that works because it does have an impact on profile. And then we're going to get into really profile in terms of I'll try not to take too long, but obviously I've got to explain to you what is market profile? Why are we using it? What's the point of control, which we've already spoken about when it came to volume profile? What's the value area, which we've discussed? How is it different on market profile to volume profile? Balance in balance? A lot of this stuff we've already covered it. I'm just going to give it to you from a market profile perspective. Single prints excess we haven't talked about. Poor highs and lows, which are quite specific to market profile, but pretty useful to know about. Letters versus blocks. I won't say more than that now. It'll make sense when I get into it. We'll talk a little bit about initial balance, which is the first X period of the day of the regular trading hour session. So again, we will. Don't worry too much if it doesn't make sense right now. We're going to cover that. And then the shapes I'm going to have a brief chat about. Basically, the entire book or books of market profile are based on things like profile shapes and things like that. And, you know, I don't really use them, but that's why I suggest you read the books and have a look at what sort of theory out there. And I'm just going to touch upon it very briefly just to give it a nice completion, this whole section. And then we're really going to get into getting on the charts and developing levels. And that's the composite structure. So my guess is this may form like this whole section on itself by the time we finish everything before we move on to composite structure. But we'll see how it goes when we get to this stage or make a decision. All right. So let's get on and crack on with market profile. And then, yeah, just to remind you, don't go off and read the books right now. Let's do some market profile stuff, maybe even get you getting building contextual levels because you've done a lot of theory. And I understand, you know, I don't need to go and spend another two, three weeks reading books because it's just theory. Let's get you started building contextual levels and get you developing some institutional strategies. And maybe simultaneously, you can think about doing some of your own research. Google is obviously very powerful as well, and obviously the books as well. And obviously, I'm here to help you, as you know, I am. My only point is, it's not that I'm saying to you, look, I don't want to show it to you, so go and figure out for yourself. No, not at all. I hope you can see. Actually, I'm trying to help you by saying, look, don't take my word for everything. Don't just take it as gospel. Go on Google, do research, observe things for yourself, figure things out. Disagree with me. You know, that is going to make you an amazing, potentially an amazing trader is having that critical thinking. And I don't see enough people doing it. Don't get me wrong, I'm sure in your own business, you do it. You're excellent at it, much better than I am. But when it comes to trading in particular, let's be honest, people don't do it. They just take whatever course they're given and they just say, yep, I'll take the guy's word for it. That's what I do. And they just start doing it. It's ridiculous. Don't do that. Even with me, as someone who's incredibly experienced and obviously very successful in trading, even I'm telling you, don't do that. It's going to make you a better trader to really do some extracurricular research, figure things out about all the things I'm telling you about. Personally, if I was doing this course, and this is going back to a little bit of the reality I'd be googling everything that this guy Envy's telling me and double checking, triple checking, and seeing if there's any variations, et cetera, et cetera, because it's going to make you a better trader. And it's going to get you asking me questions. And I love it when people ask me questions and say, you know, I saw this, I saw that, this didn't make sense to me, that didn't make sense to me. And it's going to make your questions much more rounded and mean the conversations that we have are going to be better, right? So I hope you can see I'm trying to help you when I say that. I'll obviously give you all my knowledge, 110%, but obviously there's going to be stuff out there that's obviously, you know, what's the downside? There isn't any. So I hope you can see that's for your benefit. Let's crack onto the next section and look at some of these market profile elements and why we're looking at my market profile. All right, see you on the next slide. Okay, ladies and gentlemen. So on this slide, I want to talk to you about a really, really important concept called RTH versus ETH. And, you know, if you ever speak to any professional traders, they're going to know exactly what you mean when you say RTH versus ETH. So I just realized I'm actually written it on here, but essentially RTH is regular trading hours and ETH is electronic trading hours. So I'm going to go over that. But what I wanted to say is, look, going forward, I've written it here. Everything we do in the pro section from now onwards is only going to be related to the S&P 500 and crude oil. Those are the only two markets I trade. I don't necessarily want to get into a long talk about it, and maybe I could do a separate section on it, but you've got to understand, I see people out there trading a million pairs and it's just completely ludicrous. As you know, I worked on an institutional trading floor even before I went into proprietary trading, I worked on an actual interbank floor. And I can assure you, you know, even interbank traders, they were only ever trading one or two pairs, currency pairs. And you see that in when I'm trading FX, I only look at the pound, you know, specialize in it, become the best in it. And it's no different in futures markets. You know, I make 90% of my portfolio is S&P 500 and crude oil. And look, people say to me, futures, aren't they dangerous? Don't matter, don't trade futures. I already said that in the initial reality check. Don't go anywhere near futures. Futures are just a proxy where there's volume. But as you see, they move tick for tick with, you know, your own retail brokers markets for all this stuff. But again, doesn't matter, because until your three, four months, profitable risk adjusted basis on the simulator is irrelevant. So don't worry about all of that. What is my point anyway, is that I only focus on two markets at the time of me recording this. Obviously, oil is incredibly volatile. So, you know, this is a very advanced thing, which we may talk about later in the course. But obviously, I recognize that. And I know when to step away and when to step in. And, you know, for example, in FX in March, I've seen trade the whole month, because I did the analysis where you saw the ranges were outside of extremes. And essentially, it wasn't the right time to trade it. And how do I know that? Because I'm so familiar with that market. And this is the advantage of only trading one or two markets, right? Each market has a personality, they trade differently, they have seasonal patterns. You know, you just got to start understanding this from a business perspective. I just don't see it talked about enough. And, you know, sadly, unfortunately, most people have failed before they started because they just don't get this simple concept that each market is different. And people talk about, I'm sure you may have heard of this, where people say, oh, you know, this market has this personality, that. What does it mean? What is personality? What does that mean? You know, again, it's like some mythical concept. No, it isn't. A lot of it is to do with, and in fact, all of it is to do with volume, A, and B, the types of players. That is it. Bottom line, those are the two things. So essentially, things like very liquid contracts will have a wide range of speculators and good volume, liquidity, which means that, well, it doesn't have these big jumps. We talked about this before, the inefficiencies that can occur can be very jumpy. Obviously, things that are liquid have a better marketplace in terms of price determination. So, you know, I recognise this as a professional guy, but more importantly, so do professional firms. So I'm going to come back to that point about professional firms recognising this. But why? Why do I only trade S&P 500 and crude oil? Well, let's look at the top 10 liquid futures contracts globally in the world. Look what's number one, S&P 500, OK? On average, this is daily volume, and it actually is more. This is a little bit of an old chart. As of now, I was checking the data. The average volume has actually gone up even more. But, you know, here is 1.7 million contracts that they traded. Then you've got 10-year treasuries, which, as I said, I don't look at because it can be incredibly slow. But it's obviously a very popular contract. You've got the Nikkei. You've got the Bund, which is incredibly popular in Europe, the German bond, the 10-year German bond. And then look, crude oil. So the top two or three US markets in the world, let's ignore treasuries for now because obviously they're quite a specialised market. And obviously, they're mainly used by institutions, governments, and so on and so forth, and for quite specific reasons. There is, of course, speculation going on there, but it's a different type of speculation generally and can be a little bit more complex. And as you've seen, more importantly, the action on the depth of market is very slow. It's more about taking small kicks, and we want to move away from that. So I'm just going to ignore that for now. In terms of real opportunity, providing us with opportunity to get on and maybe take a decent range out of the bay, the best two markets in the world, well, number one, without a doubt, is the S&P 500. And then next is crude oil. And actually, if you look here, globally, can you see a single currency? I can't. So it's not there. Then if we go over to the CME, which is just the Chicago exchange that obviously we use for the S&P 500, which is on the CME exchange below the CME group, and then you've got crude oil, which is on the NYMEX exchange below the CME group. So they're both CME. S&P 500, again, number one, contract, and crude oil. It's number three, but it's well up there. It's one of the top contracts. And then, guys, this is why I don't touch any of this stuff. Look at gold. Very thin market. Euro FX is OK, but very thin market, you know. You're talking about, what, 1.7, 1.8 million contracts in the S&P 500. Six, five, six times less volume. And that's in the euro. Can you imagine some of the other pairs that people are trading, these cross rates and euro Aussie and Aussie dollars? Completely bonkers, guys. You've got to realise you've been taking, I hope you don't mind saying this, in retail, you've been taking down the garden path, basically, when it comes to, I shouldn't even laugh about it, because it's serious. People are losing money in instruments that have very little transparent volume. I get it, three to five trillion dollars. I know, I was in the middle of all of that. But it's great, like I told you. It's an incredibly difficult and advanced market. Don't take my word for it. Go and check. There is not a single professional firm on this planet that will let you trade for an exchange when you start, OK? They're all, check it, check, go and check for yourself. They're all going to get you trading the S&P 500, maybe, if you're lucky, crude oil. If you go to a US firm, this is obviously if you don't trade individual stocks. I'm talking about futures markets and more global composite things and obviously individual products like commodities, crude oil and gold and so on and so forth. And then foreign exchange is obviously more like a grouped asset class rather than individual stocks. But so in terms of the speculative assets that we're used to seeing, S&P 500 is really the only thing they're going to let you do. S&P, maybe 10-year treasuries, you know, basically liquid instruments, guys. That's it. Once you start getting below here, no, these are advanced markets. I'm not going to let you touch them. And, you know, you've got things like the pound. You see me trading the pound. It's a very advanced market. Aussie dollar and cross rates, forget it. There's no market. Be lucky to get a few thousand contracts trading in a liquid marketplace, right? Don't get it confused with the three to five trillion number here. That's obviously OTC. So my point is that these guys in a professional firm, they're not. So, you know, by all means, if you want to become a treasury trader, go and do it. And if you want to trade something differently, do it. But pick from liquid markets. What's the advantage? Guys, I can see all this volume where? On my profile. And it means something when you start going down here and looking at all this. I don't want to say the word junk because it isn't. People do make money out of it. But how meaningful is the transactions that we see? You know, and I'm going to talk about this a lot when I go to the FX section. And I don't know when I'm going to build that. Obviously, I'll build that at some point in the future. But and I keep trying to tell people this and they don't understand when I say, you know, I've been watching the pound for over a decade and obviously I'm eyeballing a lot of this. Why? Because there's no volume. And I've recognized that and I trade accordingly. You got guys trading indicators and whatnot on the most illiquid marketplaces. Unbelievable, right? So obviously, I'm saying this with enthusiasm because I haven't shown you this guys before and why a lot of people are like, why do you trade at simply 500? Why do you trade CUDOR? Well, look, it's the number one market in the world in terms of liquidity. OK, guys, it's the most transparent marketplace in the world, right? It's common sense. You've got to be looking at this market. You have to. Even if you go on and develop a career in a different asset, I'm not saying don't. If you want to go and trade FX in a few years time, you want to trade something else. Do it, but learn how to read the market and what is telling you on liquid marketplaces first. And I'm going to talk about this in that reality check, but don't take this the wrong way. I hope you see I'm trying to help you. If you can't trade successfully on liquid marketplaces, honestly, be honest with yourself. What hope have you got on illiquid marketplaces? Very little. I'll be honest with you. Never seen it in my life. It's not going to happen, in my opinion. So I hope you can see why I'm saying all of this, because I don't like to just say to you, yeah, do you know what? Just trade S&P is the best. Trade CUDOR. Believe me, it's the best. No, I like to show you evidence. That's what I'm trying to do, guys, is really, you know, back everything up, I say, with hard evidence. And here's the evidence that they're the most liquid marketplaces in the world. You know, so you've got crude oil there, and actually crude is now approaching close to a million contracts a day. It's even jumped up. And so that's why I only look at those two markets. Like I said, you're welcome to look at other liquid marketplaces, but please, whatever you do, don't start looking at all of this stuff. You're just going to find it very difficult to learn anything. Just my opinion, professional opinion is focus on the S&P, Treasuries if you want, or CUDOR. Fantastic markets. And just recognize, like I said, obviously CUDOR is quite volatile at the moment. Step away. Focus on the S&P. When volatility calms down, get back on it. The S&P has its volatile moments. You've got to recognize one, take your foot off the gas. Those are things we can talk about later. But I just thought it was important I said this, because going forward, I'm not going to be talking about any other markets. I will obviously try my best to build some sort of cohesive or coherent FX section, but I haven't done that yet. So I don't know. Obviously, that's going to be quite difficult, given the way that I trade it and these issues in liquidity. But I'll certainly put something out there. But at least for the foreseeable future, with this particular profile section, it's just going to be S&P 500 and CUDOR, and it's backed up by this evidence. So basically, what it is, is that's got the initial, and it was important I said that, because I'm talking about volume there, right? So what it is, is look, there's certain things you can find on Google, and there's no point in me talking for a long time about that. But stuff like this, it won't be obvious to you. But things like RTH and ETH, you can Google it. And even stuff, obviously, market profile theory. So what I will do is, obviously, I'll try and keep it as to the point as possible. And if there's anything maybe you felt that you want to learn more about, I even said in the last session, Google everything anyway. But this in particular, you Google it, you'll find some great info out there about this. But essentially, what it was, is a long time ago, everything in the futures market was traded through a pit, right? So the CME had a pit for oil, for all different types of futures, obviously. And essentially, what it was, is these were physical marketplaces, OK? It's called open outcry. So you may have seen it in the movies where you get all these guys in yellow jackets or whatever, screaming and shouting at each other. And these were essentially floor traders, market makers, guys. And they had pit hours, right? So that's essentially what RTH is, regular trading hours. So for the S&P futures pit, the hours was 9.30 to 4.15 New York time, which is 2.30 to 9.15 UK time. And for crude oil, it was a shorter session. So it was 9 in the morning till 2.30 Eastern, so New York, and which is 2 p.m. to 7.30 GMT. So you can trade outside of those hours until, obviously, later on, they introduced Glovex, the electronic trading, electronic markets, which you see today. I said it's done through an exchange electronically. That wasn't available before when there were only pit trading many years ago. And so like I said, you can Google all this stuff. But essentially, what happened is you'd have to obviously contact your broker. The broker would contact, I believe, an order clerk on the actual pit. The order clerk would then let the floor broker know that you wanted to trade. The floor broker would then trade with, they'd obviously trade with each other and get your order executed. That would then be fed back to the, what did I say, the order clerk. The order clerk would then tell your broker, you can imagine this process, maybe take five, 10 minutes sometimes to do. And again, you can read more about this if you want in your own time. So then, obviously, as technology improved, they introduced electronic markets and they said, you know what, we're going to essentially trade 23 hours a day. So it's 6 p.m. to 5 p.m. So you may notice on your depth of market, I believe about 5 p.m., it just switches off. 6 p.m., it comes back on and resets. That's Eastern time. So it's 11 p.m. at night through to 10 p.m. UK time, GMT. And it's the same. The electronic trading hours for the S&P are exactly the same. So it's pretty much 24 hours. Obviously, you've got the one hour period, maintenance period, they call it. So it's essentially a new day starting. And what happened over time is, obviously, electronic, people started to think, you know what, it's such a, you know, that sort of difficult process and onerous process doing it the way that I just described, as you can imagine. Why don't I just click a button? So what's happened over time is that, you know, it's almost become redundant, the pits. And I believe recently, maybe three, four years ago, the CMU shut majority of the pits. I think there might be some open, but obviously, these products, the pits were closed down. And so now it's fully electronic. However, the reason I told you all of this is because rather than having open outcry, they now have electronic open outcry. So the pit hours are still very much active and observed and adhered to, but they've just done electronically now. And what I've observed, again, don't take my word for it, it's great exercise for you guys to do. And I noticed this myself. When I'm watching, you know, I built you that quote board, you'll see in the mornings. So if you're in the UK, obviously, this won't happen till about 2.30. But from 11 at night, when you, let's say, so what I do is, let's say you start observing S&P or crude oil when it's about midday or earlier, obviously, 7, 8 in the morning. If you're in the US, New York or Chicago or whatever, just look at the volume and you'll see that once the day kicks off, just look at the volume just in the RTH. And what I've noticed is it's a roundabout, it's about 80 to 85% of all volume takes place here. So let me just get rid of this, just so I can be very clear with what I'm saying to you. It's this session, which is the pit session. It's the electronic open outcry. It's called the pit, basically, session, but it's all electronic. So don't worry, you don't need to put a yellow jacket on and start screaming and shouting your order at someone, it's none of that. But it's essentially mimicking that, but electronically now, like I said, because they've shut the pits, but they've obviously maintained the pit hours. Yeah, so let's say you get maybe 15% of volume here and you get 85% down here. It's amazing, isn't it? So in such a short period of time, especially if you think of something like crude oil, where you've got 85% here and 15% here. Obviously, during volatile periods, like when there's key fundamental events going on and people have positions or they're asleep and they're being stocked out, which can happen in volatile markets, you will see the overnight. It's also called the overnight session. This is called the day session, essentially. Day. Okay. And this is called the overnight. And that's overnight. And you hear me and many professional traders use these words interchangeably. ETH, Globex, which is the CME's name for the electronic trading hours. Overnight, overnight, because it's overnight, right? You're sleeping during these times. And then the day session is, you've got to remember, these are American markets. So obviously, they're thinking in terms of daytime, 9.30 to 4.15 is very much. And it kind of also is very much in line with the underlying because the S&P 500, if you're used to trading any stock trackers or whatever they are that you trade, obviously, this tracks essentially one for one with the underlying, which is the S&P 500. But obviously, this runs 24 hours. But like I said, there will be people trading it overnight, but it's very, very low volume, you know, talking about 15%. So, and I will tell you why this is very important, especially for profile. But the point is, what I was saying is, think about it, it's amazing, isn't it? That essentially, almost the entire volume takes place in the pit session. So, you know, a few hours in oil, nine in the morning to 2.30, done, about 80, 90% of volume. The rest of the time, so, what's that? That's about five and a half hours. The rest of the time, what, 15, 16, 17 hours, really very little volume. And same as you see here in the S&P 500. Obviously, the session's slightly longer, but 90% of the volume is essentially being done in what? About 30% of the time. So, why is this important? Because very, very, very important to know this. Firstly, obviously, you've got to know it because you've got to know, okay, what are participants focusing on? When should I be active? Well, I'm basically active, I'll be honest with you. I don't really trade overnight, 15% of volume. I've got no interest in trading the overnight session. I want to be active when the local market is active, right? Makes sense. So, that is, obviously, I'm based in the UK. So, I like to do a bit of FX in the morning, as you know, but like I said, that is an advanced marketplace. So, my suggestion would be, obviously, I don't necessarily want you to do FX until later on in your career, but I understand people are so used to doing it, they want to keep busy. And as soon as you're doing it on demo and doing whatever, I'd prefer you weren't doing it if it was technical analysis stuff and whatever. But if you've got to do something to keep you busy, do it. Otherwise, do other stuff. This is, obviously, depending on where you're based. If you're in the US, great, you're lucky because you can just wake up and straight away you're hitting these markets, you know. So, I like to look at them about half an hour before the open. Obviously, I do my prep. We'll talk about this a lot more as we progress, times to do prep and stuff like that. But essentially, I like to start being ready for trading on the S&P, say, about 9am, so half an hour before, and about 8.30am in US crude, so that'll be about 1.30 UK time, and say about 2pm. Now, what will happen is over time, my prep time used to take an hour, hour and a half. I'm embarrassed to say, but it's true, it doesn't take me anywhere near that. Now I can, 10, 20 minutes I like to spend on it, maybe a little bit longer, depending on obviously how well set up the market is. If there's a lot of things that are unclear, then obviously I will take a bit longer. But my point is, but guys, you've got to remember, I've been looking at these markets for, you know, many, many years, so I have reduced my prep time. But when I started, you know, I did used to spend at least about 45 minutes, maybe an hour prepping beforehand. So my suggestion would be that, so can you see why I'm doing this? Because I want you to be motivated now, because I'm already starting to get you geared up towards how you can start preparing for trading these markets. This is not by any means set in stone, you know, if you want to trade obviously just afternoon sessions in the S&P, you can do that, if you've got work or you've got other commitments, it's fine, it's not a problem. I'm just telling you how I do it, okay, so I don't want you to worry and think, oh my God, I have to do it at this time. No, not at all. You know, there are occasions sometimes I'm running late, I've got obviously something on or very rarely, but it has happened where sometimes I don't make the open, then obviously I'll trade a bit later. But this is an ideal world, I start to approach my trading day about an hour before I want to actually be ready. So if that's 2pm here, then obviously say about one o'clock in the afternoon UK time for S&P and maybe about 12.30 is I would suggest UK time. You can start looking to get ready for about half an hour before. So about half 12, one o'clock kind of thing. And then obviously the equivalent here would be if you're in New York, so 8.30, so about 7.38 you start doing your prep, etc. And then obviously you can adjust these by about 30 minutes later if you want to be looking at S&P 500. And obviously right now S&P 500 is a much better market because like I said, oil is very volatile, but it will change. Markets change, you adapt. There'll be again, oil will become a very good market to trade and I wouldn't be surprised if that happens in the very near future. So I don't know how much we're going to be doing of each, but at least I can tell you categorically those are the two we're going to be focused on. So that's the reason why I'm so focused on those markets, sorry A, and then B, why I look at those times. I hope you understand why it took so long to explain that. And you've got a real good feeling now. When I say to you guys, RTH session's about to open, RTH has this, RTH is doing that, ETH is doing this, overnight session is doing, has done this. So when I say overnight, I basically mean what's been happening pre the market open. So get used to this terminology because I'm going to be using it a lot. But why is it important for profile? Well, it's absolutely crucial because what it is, and every single professional that I have ever worked with, that I've ever known through other professionals, that I've observed, that I've come into some contact with, this is how they're looking at profile. What do I mean by this? As in, sorry, not market profile, but as in, in this timing, sorry, I should have been more clear about that, RTH. Okay, so their profile will not be a 24 hour profile, okay? It will only be regular trading hours. For the day, for the week, most people are looking at the full week. And that's because there's big gaps. I know it gets confusing, but look, it's just something you're going to have to get used to. To me, it makes logical sense. If it doesn't make logical sense to you, you know, you can always ask me, but to me, it's logical. That obviously for a whole week, because you've got these big gaps, and I'll talk about this a little bit more, you want to see profile for the whole week, all hours during the week. But when you're looking at a specific day, 85% of the volume is just taking place in this little zone on the day. And that's why you want to look at it from here. And honestly, there's also practical perspectives for that. Firstly, it's 85% of the volume, right? And I'm going to show you on the next page. What I'll do is let me go to the next slide, and it'll make a lot of sense. Okay, so what I've got here is I've got RTH, okay? Now, this is actually crude oil, but don't worry. It doesn't matter what market this is. It's not the point. And this is ETH, which is a 23-hour, as you know, with the break, right? This is RTH. So obviously, this is from six to five, and then this is just mine to 2.30. Look at the difference, guys. It just makes no sense. Look how huge... These are the identical profiles. Look at this. Nice, small profile telling you 85% of information, right? Which, let's be honest, it's about... In terms of space, I mean, it's that. To get what? 10%, 15% of extra information. You're almost having to look at double the profile size. It's impossible. It's impossible to do any meaningful analysis on this when you're trying to look for areas of... Let me prove it to you. Would you agree? Balance. Do you remember? Balance, imbalance, balance, imbalance. If you don't, go back and remind yourself of balance and imbalance, right? What have we got here? We've got some balance. Market becomes imbalanced and does what? Achieves balance here over two days, right? I can't even see that here. Look. Let's be honest. It's a mess. You know why? Because look, this is what... And I'll come on to market profile and what it means, obviously. But you can see here the A period. This will make sense. Don't worry. I'm going to cover this. B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J. Essentially, it's a nice period. And look, you can see, very nice balance. And don't forget, this is almost 85%, 90% of the volume. This equivalent is... Look at it, right? I mean, this is why I think it's important for me to show you. I don't want you to take my word for it. I like to show you. Look at the balance here. Can you see it distorts it? You've got a little bit of balance here. You've got balance here. I don't even know. Was that overnight? Is that only the 15%? Is this the 15%? Do you see what I mean? It's a mess, basically. That's why I never met a market professional that combines overnight and the RTH. It just doesn't make sense to combine the two. And in fact, this is... I'm going a little bit off topic here. This is one of the big problems with FX. There is no RTH. It's global. And that's why potentially you can use market profile and we'll look at it. I've got no problem with it, but you can see why I prefer to just do it by hand when I'm looking at FX. Obviously, that's something you're going to have to come to terms with and I can help you develop that maybe. But my point is this. Can you see why? If you can't build edge using an RTH session where you've got a clearly defined pit session with 85% of volume and an absolutely beautiful transactional structure, how are you going to do it in an FX marketplace that is all over the place? And you know that is no exaggeration. That is what is happening. And there's no clear sort of, yep, this is regular trading hours. This is so, let me make my profile only this section and that's meaningful. No, it's all over the place. So, you know, that was a bit off topic, but as a lot of you look at FX and, you know, I want you to try to approach this with a level of professionalism and as a business. And you've got to make a business decision. There's a transparent marketplace with, what, 1.7 million contracts. There's a clear regular trading hours. Institutions are all involved. They're all looking at this stuff. Or, do I want to look at something that barely has 50, 100,000 contracts? Don't even have regular trading hours. It's got a whole bunch of random players. Come on, guys, you've got to make a business decision now that, all right, do you know what? It makes you learn how markets work in a functional and open and transparent marketplace using proper data ordered in certain hours, et cetera. You get the point. You know, I don't want to label the point. I don't want to treat anyone like they're silly. I know you get this. And let me try and be profitable there. And then I can transfer that skill set. Why am I telling you all of this? Do you think this is Envy's rule? No, it isn't. Go to any professional firm. They will not let you touch, as I said before, FX for this reason. I'm just made this up. This is my first-hand experience. It was a bit eye-opening to me at first, but it's true. And I mentioned to you that, obviously, I worked in an interbank environment, and I had tons of experience in FX, obviously. But when I eventually moved on, and obviously, I was doing stuff in a proprietary trading environment, I recognized this straight away. So the majority, as you know, of my depth of market stuff, whilst I did a little bit of currency, and they allowed me to do it, obviously, because I had the experience, guys, the reality is everyone around me, they were doing S&P 500, crude oil, treasuries, okay? So, you know, at the end of the day, unless you've worked on an interbank desk for several years, when you go into a proprietary environment, they're just not going to let you go anywhere near all that stuff. And logically, I'm sure you'd agree with them. It doesn't make sense. They want you to have a maximum chance of success. That's why they're getting you on these markets RTH, okay? That's the profile you need to be using. Look at this. It's all over the place. You know, let's just look at... This, to me, just looks like one whole balance mush, right? Whereas here, I can actually start to build opportunity. Look, you've got... And we're going to do this, like I said, when we build contextual areas, is you've got a nice bit of balance here, and then the market comes out of it, and look, trading opportunity. Then what happens the next day? You've got balance edge here, you've got balance edge here, and look what happens. Market builds up, and it goes up to where? The other side of balance. Then look, you've got balance here. The market actually opens out of balance, comes in, rejects it. Boom, imbalance, okay? What happens here? Overnight, you get this little move down, right? Which we see here, essentially. And then... Oh, sorry. Here. And then... In fact, no, I was right. It is this one. You see a gap down, and essentially, what happens is you open outside, there's a gap, and the market tries to fill the gap. Then what happens here is you open up here, we come, we test value, and that gives us a rejection and an opportunity to go up. Look, at the end of the day, don't worry about any of this stuff I've been showing you. I'm going to cover this in depth in the building trading opportunities. But try building what I just showed you here. Very, very difficult, right? It's very, very difficult. It is, to me, this just looks like one big, what? Balanced area. How are you going to find trading opportunities in that? You're not. And that is why RTH is so powerful. Incredibly powerful. And why a lot of people who know me well know, yeah, I do FX, and okay, I'm very good at FX. And I mean that in the most humble way. I am. I know. Does the result show it? I'm going to be honest. I do trade FX very well. But this makes up 90% of what I do. Why? For this very reason. Even me as an experienced trader, you know, I'm using RTH, and I'm trading the most liquid markets in the world, okay? You don't need to. You're taking unnecessary risk, in my opinion. And I hope you can see I've backed up. So that's RTH versus ETH. Let's just go back to the previous slide. And essentially, just make sure that everything's covered. So yeah, we've covered the hours, which should make sense to you now. I'm just picking up my pen, sorry. So we've covered the hours, which should make sense to you now in both Crude Oil and S&P 500. We've covered, obviously, the liquidity in each. And then we've basically covered why we're looking at slightly smaller profiles, because they're incredibly powerful. And obviously, that's where basically the pit volume is. And that's where everyone's doing trading. And it allows us to create really nice information about transactions in a balanced way. The sort of bell-shaped curve, right, which I showed you, it does come back a lot as well to normal distributions and being able to identify balance in a nice way. What happens is when you pull that overnight data with it, you saw it, I showed you, it distorts it. And I forgot to mention that in the last post. But you know, I don't want to get too heavy on the maths. But the reality is a lot of it also, institutions realise, is you can build these nice, it's called a Gaussian shape, but it's a bell shape, essentially. And I showed you that, that the mathematics works beautifully when, sorry, that should be straight, but works beautifully when what, we have symmetry, right, either side. It's got the most useful mathematical properties in terms of, you know, defining nice value areas when this section and this section is obviously nicely balanced. Makes sense, right? When I identify balance, where is balance and identify the standard deviations when things are balanced. And that happens when you've got regular trading hours, i.e. most of all. When you start introducing ETH into this, as you saw, it distorts this and it kind of causes this to go out of shape. And as you saw, it can bring extra humps. And mathematically, I don't want to get into the maths, we've done enough maths, but it can cause problems. Because as you can see, when you start getting distorted distributions, sorry, just give me a second, because I want to make sure my pen is, when you start getting these distorted distributions, as you're going to see, it's very difficult for normal distribution, for the statistics to make sense. It doesn't, because, like I said, it's not evenly distributed. What actually happens is you get, start getting balance in two places. You get balance here, you get balance here. OK. And that's because the outcomes, they're not evenly distributed, which means that, you know, again, I'm hesitating to get into the maths too much. But obviously, when you do the the sums that I told you about, when you take the average variances and you square root them, the properties that make them sort of standardised, being able to compare from one profile to another, it no longer makes sense. It's not applicable. And you'll notice, basically, that what happens is with this, and look, don't worry, I will cover this again. I know some of you will be, potentially, I don't know, maybe you won't be, but some of you will be thinking, what on earth is going on about the maths here? But I'll be honest with you, it's important you at least ever so slightly grasp this, and I'll tell you why in a second. But so when you have a normal distribution that's evenly distributed, the properties allow for this 70% area in terms of standard deviation to a, be balanced and make sense from a statistical perspective, they're rigorous. But also, they make them comparable. When you have these distortions, which means that the outcomes are not evenly distributed, unfortunately, the way that it calculates it, it no longer makes sense because it's not giving you balanced value areas. What will happen is you'll have, these will shift, and they'll almost try, basically, what it will try and do is it will try, it calculates it almost as if it's like that. So what happens is you can have these value areas looking like that, right? Do you see what I mean? And it doesn't, it's not balanced. Because actually, if you think about it, what's the market done here? It's, sorry, and I know I've drawn it like that, it should actually be like that, isn't it? You see, you've got to, what's actually happened is it's balanced, imbalanced, and then balanced. But you're trying to say that it's balanced. You see, it doesn't work. And that's where the statistics falls apart, unfortunately. And that's one of the reasons I use composites. So we're going to come back to that. But it's important I said that because it's one of the reasons why I use market profile. And we'll get onto that. But it's because the statistics falls apart. So maybe I'll re-cover that. But I think, essentially, what we've done is we've covered enough. Hopefully, you understand now why I had to speak so much about it and why we're using regular trading hours. Because I don't want anyone going away thinking, oh, I'm just going to use RTH because Envy told me to. No. We want you to know there's rigorous reasons, very logical reasons why we use RTH. And obviously, also, the problems, as I said, with FX. And I'm mentioning that because I know many of you trade FX. And I'm trying to make you, I'm trying to give you the other side of the coin. Because I know you get fed, and I hope you don't mind me saying this, a lot of crap about FX. And I hope you can now look at it, even without me, look at it from that sort of independent perspective. Take the evidence I've given you and make your own mind up for yourself. And hopefully, you can reach the same conclusion that it don't make sense. What am I doing? Why am I even looking at this stuff that is not transparent, that has no trading hours, when there's these amazing markets out there that, OK, I don't necessarily need to start trading straight away. But at least let me attempt on the simulator to get profitable on. And maybe I can learn stuff that I can then apply to other markets, if that's what you still want to do. All right. So what we'll do is we'll do, I'm going to try my best to very quickly finish off just some of the market profile theory. And then we'll see where we're at. OK. So I know I said we're going to look at market profile and the individual characteristics. But you might be wondering, what am I doing here? But as you know, I like to do things thoroughly. Let's have a look at why. Why am I actually looking at market profile? I think it's important that we establish that. Because like I said, you might be wondering, hang on, we've got this thing, volume profile has had us on the depth of market. Well, why are we even looking at market profile? OK. So what it is, is as I was developing, obviously, like I said, and I got this understanding of, do you remember how I said all of these things can be combined? And this is almost like the depth of market split out. I think maybe it was because of my depth of market, obviously time, years spent on that thing, that it did get me thinking. Because what you see is, if I get a chance, I've got some training videos of one of the best prop firms in the world. They're not around anymore, but they've produced some unbelievable traders. And I've got some training videos. And you'll see, and I'm going to show you them, hopefully, I might. If I get a chance, I don't know how quickly I'll be able to do it, but I will at some stage definitely add them in to the pro section. And I want to show you how they look at profile, and it's how I was taught to look at profile. So what they do is, they'll look at profile on a weekly basis and a daily basis. So to be fair on them, they look at profile on a day-to-day basis like this, exactly as you see here. So these are day periods on an RTH basis, OK? So as I said, everyone's looking RTH. So it's not like I invented RTH. They're all looking at it. Fine. I'm not doing anything different. But what I noticed was, you see how this is Monday? So this is crude oil, by the way. This is the current contract. I thought, you know what? Rather than showing you pictures, let me just show you on my chart. It'll be easier. You can see this is Monday. And in fact, let me just get a straight line, see if I can do this. See that Monday? Oops. I don't know what happened there. Sorry. I apologise. Just give me a second. I've not used this before. Yeah, OK. So that's Monday. And that's Friday. OK. Right. And then similarly here, obviously, that's Monday. And then that's Friday. OK. Now, we'll get into this later where we start thinking about, because what you've got to remember and something that I've kind of hinted on, do you remember I laid the seeds in the ultra-market theory section where I said, it's all well and good, this being a balanced market on this day. And there you can see the little value areas. By the way, these little things, if you zoom in, you can see them. So these are just the value areas which I talked about in the normal distribution section. Sorry, let me just get rid of this. It's all well and good. And you can see these are just little domes, right? Depth of market. So you can see them. These are just the value areas. So no longer do we have to guess, is my point. We've got them there, got them there, got them there. OK. You've got it there. They're marked for us. OK. The software's just marking what? Do you remember? 70%, right? Sorry, my pen's gone a little bit funny. I think I've been writing so much, it may have actually gone blunt. But that's all right, we'll sort it out in the next section. Apologise, very unprofessional for me to talk openly about this. But it is what it is. The pen has decided to. Even the pen's getting tired of hearing me talk that it's gone blunt. But anyway, so where was I? So my point is, anyway, coming back to all seriousness, is this is just from one investor perspective, someone who's looking at a short time frame, locals, people who are investing on a short horizon. And we're going to talk a lot more about this. It's too much if I just throw 10 different perspectives of value at you. But it's important I mention it here. So initially, I will get you developing strategy on looking at only one or two lenses when I introduce the VWAP in short succession after this. But the reason I have to mention this is because when I was taught profile, I mean, I was taught theory. Obviously, I was shown profile on the depth of market early on. But even later on, when I did training in a proprietary trading firm, and even though I continue to obviously spend a lot of time on depth of market, so I wasn't that interested at the time. But the theory, I always remembered the theory I was taught. And that was that they would say, oh, you know, you've got to look at weekly profile, daily profile, monthly profile, quarterly profile. And you'll see, I do do that. But what occurred to me was, hang on a minute. So when I saw that, and I'm getting to the point, do you remember I said to you how really all of these are just extracted out of something on this side? That's what's all going on when you do a weekly profile, is what are you doing? What is a weekly profile? It's just these five profiles. What? Combined. Look, there's no volume here. And then you get a big chunk of volume here. That's the profile, right? Two distributions, but on one day. Now look here. What's this? You've got a bit of volume here, a bit of volume here. So you've got volume, and then what? Very little one then, that little bit. So can you see, all you've done here is you've just pulled out chunks of here, and you've pulled these chunks out here. And then here, you've pulled this chunk out here, and you've pulled this chunk out here. And then similarly, we haven't actually, I think it might have gapped down, so we'll just leave that for now. But do you see what's happening? So I don't know, it just never sat well with me. I think it's useful, and I'll show you why to look at it. But what started occurring to me was, hang on a minute, that doesn't make, and I couldn't believe that I'd never got, that no one ever said this to me before. And hands up, I'm not saying I'm the only person looking at it, because someone, I'll be honest with you, an amazing trader helped me to develop this idea using market profile. And this is why I'm telling you this, because you need to understand why we're using market profile, is because, and maybe he was, I mean, he was doing this, and maybe because I've also looked at this, he was thinking, do you know what? Let me help this guy out, take him under my wing, or whatever. So I was very fortunate to meet this guy, because he helped me develop this idea, when I initially was trying to get someone to help me see why is this happening. So anyway, to the point, so this balance and this balance, right? I was like, hang on a minute, that is balanced there on those two days. Then we go imbalance. You've got balance here, across three days. You come down, the market's imbalanced, what you call trending. I don't care if you call it trending, it doesn't matter, as long as you make money out of it. But as I said, it's not trending, it's looking for value, but it's imbalanced. Then it does what? Balanced. So hang on a minute, why am I looking at the value area for one profile? Basically, why am I merging, why is the week merging? Can you see, Monday to Friday, it's kind of arbitrary. Same here, where's balance? Well, actually, I want to combine these, because even though it went up, it came back down. In this area as a whole, balance. I want the value area for that area. I don't want Friday, where it went imbalanced and then became balanced, because what's the weekly profile going to tell me? All of this combined. And in fact, it's not going to be like that, is it? It's going to have the gap, which is the gap down on Friday. So it's going to have that, then it's going to have a gap down, and then it's going to have that. And it's going to give me, it's almost going to give me like a value area for this, which is wrong, right? It's wrong. It should be... I don't know, it just seems obvious to me. Now, hang on a minute, that don't seem right. You know, so surely we should be, maybe this is where my maths did help me, where I was like, hang on, you can't have a value area here. It doesn't make sense. It's not an even distribution. The statistics, this 70% is very inaccurate. It doesn't accurately reflect balance. And this comes on to, I'll be honest with you, things that maybe are outside of the scope of what I'm doing here. And it's to do with tails in distributions and how distributions can be skewed. And there is a bit of maths involved. But honestly, you don't need to know it. All you need to understand is that it isn't in that nice shape that I was showing you in the probability distribution section, which means that these values, they're meaningless. They don't mean anything. For the reasons that I said to you on the last slide, you know, I don't want you to get confused. Don't. All it is, is if you've got, so let's look at it this way. If you've got some balance, right, and then you've got imbalance in one period, don't worry, it's a week, a day, it doesn't matter. And then nothing, there's very little volume, and then you go balanced again. That's two distributions, guys. Distribution here, distribution here. All that I'm saying is, why would you then use mathematics? That's not happening, is it? Do you see your distribution, almost, your value areas will be skewed. They're just wrong. Can you see they're wrong? So that's what became obvious to me. It was so obvious to me that basically the value areas were meaningless when we were looking at weekly distribution. So let me actually show you this, right. So I've got this chart up. So what I'll do is, just give me a second. Sorry. So I have put the weekly profile on here, and let's just apply it. So what I've basically done there is, yeah, I'll have to clear that off. I didn't want to, but I'll have to do it again. Do you remember? There's Monday, and there's Friday. OK, and I've actually drawn that wrong. Apologise, making you guys wait for this, but. OK, so this is, all this is, is this is weekly profile. This is, and just imagine that that, obviously, in the Globex period, would have a little bit of volume there. And just imagine that that, obviously, in the Globex period, would have a little bit of volume there. But because it's RTHs, there's a gap. But essentially, what it is doing is it's treating that as one profile. So these value areas, can you see this value area here, and this value area here? It's completely wrong, because it's treating all of that as one distribution. It's much clearer here. Do you remember how I said to you, so let me take them off again, just to remind you. Do you see this weekly profile? I'm just going to hide it. Let me keep, I'm just going to keep the day on. There you go. Can you see it? This is the day, and in fact, let's mark that. Oh God, sorry, sorry, I do apologise. I'm just not on the ball today with this pin. So do you see what the distribution did? Do you remember I said to you, well, hang on a minute, we've got initially no balance, and then we've got kind of balance in this area, and then the next day comes and forms balance. And actually, because it's all within one period, in theory, that's the balance. What's this? Nowhere to be seen. So really, we want one composite profile, and then we want to keep Friday separate. But look what it's doing. It's a week. It's doing Monday to Friday, right? So let's bring that back. Look what it does. Look. Can you see that? It's wrong, right? It's basically doing what? I've got to get rid of some of this mess so I can make it clear to you. OK, here we go. So look what it's doing. It's basically combining, you can't see it because it's behind here, but you know, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and what did I say? I don't know Friday, but look what it's doing. It's bringing it in anyway. So it's calculating this as a nice, even distribution. But look, huge gaps here, huge gaps here. Why? Because these are almost, this is almost a distribution in its own right. And I'm really sorry if I'm losing anyone here, but just keep going through this. It will make a lot of sense if you watch it back a few times. And you know, we can always discuss this afterwards. I've got no issue as a group. It'll be good. I think it'll be helpful for me to cover this again if no one understands it. So don't feel you're alone, you're not. We'll cover it if you get stuck on it. But look, go through it a few times. Look what it's doing, the weak profile. Do you see? It's taking that into its value area calculations, which is a big problem. I don't want that. What I actually want is this Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, like I said. And in fact, even I don't want kind of half of this period. And I really want it to be, you know, just this as in this area here. And can you see it's funny, isn't it? Almost the value area of this is where the point of control is for the weak. I mean, that is how off it is. So what's the solution? Well, the solution is what? We need to be able to combine our own profiles. Don't get me wrong, the weak is a good thing to look at, and I look at it. And I'll show you this later as we advance, really advanced, because you can see I'll be combining loads of perspectives and things will get difficult. I'm not going to lie to you. That's why I say the learning curve is long. You're going to learn this stuff overnight. You are going to have to learn to combine different perspectives, you know, those hedge funds that are looking at weekly profile. But the reality is it doesn't make sense. Composite profiles are really important. And I'm absolutely and actually, I know that there's other people looking at this. It's just that when I first started looking at it, I thought, oh, I wondered why. But then, like I said, when I actually reached out to someone who was very, very good, like incredible trader, he actually showed me something and that's market profiles actually showed when I brought this up, because I noticed that there weren't no software out there that allowed you to do what. So I'm getting to the point. Sorry, it's just I need to get rid of this to make my point. Very difficult for me to make my point. So just remember that. In fact, what I'll do is, what I was going to say, is just remember this weekly profile, but why don't we just pull it in. OK, so you've got the weekly profile and I'm going to get rid of it now so I can make my point. OK, so we got rid of the weekly profile. So can you see that weekly profile did what? Just combined five depth of markets into one big depth of market volume profile. So like I said, I was always wondering there must be a way, not necessarily on Monday, but on Tuesday, nothing. I don't want these combined weekly profile because look, values here, values here. I don't look at price. It's not about, oh, there's some overlapping price. I don't care. I'm looking at where's value. It's here and it's here. Can you see? Completely apart. Value's here, so it's miles away. But look at the next day, Wednesday. It's here. Right, I'm going to combine these two and then look for trading opportunities. So there was no way, though. I used to have to eyeball this stuff, I'll be honest with you. And I kind of, this is the type of stuff I do in FX, obviously. And maybe that's why I'm able to do it, because I did this for a long time, is I would eyeball this. I'll just say, do you know what? That's roughly value here. And actually, I want to be able to split that out, but I can't. So maybe it's two and a half days. And then this little area is a nice distribution on its own. That's a nice distribution here. And then this is, I don't want to combine it. Then someone mentioned market profile to me, and they said, you do realize your market profile, you can actually combine them. So sorry, I deleted the weekly one there. And in fact, let's just get rid of all of it. So what market profile allows you to do is you can actually combine this day and this day, and you can split this day completely and get rid of this. I mean, obviously not get rid of your chart, but split it out and just bring that out. So you can combine this two and a half day period, and it will work out a value area for you. So you can start doing trading opportunities. Even here, look, you can combine this. You could potentially split that out, and you can just combine this and this and split this bit out. And so on and so forth. So you can start to really, even this, look at this, clear value area there, value area there, value area there. These three days clearly did what? They didn't go anywhere. As soon as it burst out, I can tell you that market's either going to go there, back to where? Previous value. Or, and we'll do this, don't worry, we'll do this on a chart together. I won't be showing you stuff on a pen for the rest of time. Don't worry about that. We will be doing this and getting trading opportunities. We're very close now. But it's important I show you this. I know you say I'm just using market profile for the sake of it. I'm not. It's because on volume profile, and think about it, how many transactions are here? Hundreds of thousands. You can't, it's difficult. I understand why they don't let you do it in the software. Is you can't, how can you break it out? Where are you going to break it out? I want to break it out in the 29,501 class transaction. No, do you see what I mean? It's very difficult. Market profile, on the other hand, let's go back to it. So as I was saying, market profile, on the other hand, here, look, split, isn't it? Into letters. Each period is split out into letters that I can easily do what with? I can play around with, I can split these periods out and then combine it into a very similar profile. But what it is, is let me explain to you what market profile actually is, because a lot of what I just said won't make sense and why I'm actually looking at market profile in particular. So let's look at this, but on a real chart. OK, so we're back to my crude oil chart. And what I've actually done is I've combined market profile with volume profile, which I've noticed actually is quite common. A lot of guys do do this, but they don't do the composite thing. Generally, I've not seen much of it, but to be honest, recently I have seen a few people doing the composite sort of combination. But yeah, like I said, it's not something I've seen much of, but I do think it's very powerful and it's basically what I'm doing. But like I said, look, obviously, I'm not the only person doing it out there. Someone else actually showed me this. Like I said, that you can combine profile. So clearly they were doing it. And I have noticed a few people doing it. And actually, I've now seen on institutional platforms, they're all introduced this ability to combine. It's good, right? The more people that are doing it, the better. But it's not for the reasons that you may think any of this, and no offense if you use this stuff, but it's nothing to do with self-fulfilling nonsense. Fibs, 50, no, it's not. This is transactional data. Whether I combine it or not, just because a million people would go and combine this stuff, it's not going to make it work any better. You've got to understand we're looking at raw data, okay? At the end of the day, people are transacting or going in balance for balance. Whether I combine this or not, do you understand the same thing is happening? The market is basically what I'm saying is the market, when it goes in balance here, is behaving as if this is one anyway. Why? Because it is one. Does that make sense? Here you've got Thursday, Friday. Whether I combine the volume and I say, oh, look, this much volume took place here on Thursday, Friday, or whether I don't combine it, the volume took place there regardless of whether I combine it or not. Do you see my point? It's just, from a visual perspective, it's obviously easier for me to analyse what the market is trying to achieve. That's all it is. There's no self-fulfilling nonsense or any of that, okay? That's why I say really understand the power of what this stuff is telling you. Don't think of it as an indicator that, oh, it's combined and I've got these amazing levels. No, it's not that. The market's going to work the same way whether it's combined or not. The market is transactions, and you know all of this. These transactions are combined anyway, aren't they? Just because this says Thursday and this says Friday doesn't mean they're split out. These transactions happened at the same price. They just happen to happen on different days, at the end of the day. As far as these people are concerned, it's all one anyway, right? The next people that come in are basing their decisions over kind of like when you bought the iPhone. I talk about the iPhone example, I believe, and I said, you scroll on eBay, don't you? You look and you think, 600 right now, how much is it? A thousand. You don't think, oh, but yesterday it was a thousand, but the day before it was, you know, whatever it was. No, you're thinking of it as a whole. That's all my point is. The next buyers and sellers, they're already thinking of transactional data over a period. It's just visually, and I'm sorry to labour the point, it's just because even when this is taught, you know, if I see it being taught or people mentioning this, which I rarely do, but like I said, I have seen a bit of this out there now. It's just being taught at combining magical levels. It's not that. You've got to see it for what it is. And I'm sorry I went on a little bit there, but it was important I said that. But coming back to the point, what is it? So, you know, what exactly is market profile? So you see how I did, and by the way, this is one of the reasons I moved to Sierra Chart, their market profile and volume profile software. I tell you, I used CQG, I was happy to pay the money, six, seven hundred, eight hundred dollars a month I was paying. And I don't mind paying that because obviously I'm doing much larger relative volumes in futures. $30 a month for this, which is 10 times better, cannot say, you know, sorry, I'm just giving a little shout out to Sierra there. And as you know, I've got no affiliation with them. But what it is, is I want you to understand how powerful this platform is, the way it just allows you to do this stuff with ease. I'm going to show you some amazing stuff where you can look, you can split them. That's amazing, isn't it? I'll just split that out. And don't worry, we're going to do all of this stuff together. So let's undo all splits. So, yeah, so basically, I went a little bit off topic there. Let's look at what exactly it's doing. Really, it's very simple. All of these periods, right? Someone will say, does it have to be 30 minute period? No, but it's market standard. Go and have a look. That's why I recommend you read the books and you'll see 30 minutes. I haven't seen a single person using market profile that doesn't use 30 minute period. So it's just standard. Every one of these periods, so A period is 30 minutes. Just think of it as a bar. And it is a bar. OK, so it opened there at the A, blue A. I don't know if it exactly went up or down, but for 30 minutes, basically, it moved where? In this price. So this is oil. It moved from 1680 up to 1750. Now, we don't know if this bar went up and then came down or what it did, but it doesn't matter. All we know is that the bar just, high to low, that's it, was that period. OK, and then the B period is the next day. And remember what RTH is for crude oil, right? 9am. So this was 9 to 9.30. Then 9.30 to 10 o'clock was the B period. OK, what happened? The next 30 minute candle did this. We don't know exactly how it did it. I don't care about open, high, low, close. It's just the period. High to low of the period. Then C period did what? Came back in. D period did this. E period, F period, G, H, I. OK, these are all half an hour. So every half an hour, they're just candles. Why does this matter? Well, think of like the puzzle games where they drop down, Tetris or whatever, when it's dropping down and it's building up, right? What's happening? This just, when you collapse it, this falls into there, this falls into there. Can you see some of them overlap over each other? What does that mean? It's very simple. It just means that at some point in time, these 30 minute periods all happened in the same prices. Why is that important? Well, what's volume profile? And actually, a lot of people refer to volume profile as volume at price. Because what's happening here? It's just price and volume. These are called TPOs, OK? So you can see here, market profile, TPO chart. OK, time, price, opportunity. Again, this is why I suggest read the book because it's all explained in quite a lot of detail. And one of the guys who wrote the book, he actually came up with market profile, decades ago. So heavily worth reading. And actually, it's worth mentioning here, one of the reasons why market profile is very popular with institutions is because before futures data was transparent and available, this is all they had. And actually, it's pretty good. And you'll see that. Because what it's actually doing is, rather than saying volume at price, what's it saying? Time at price. That's what's called time, price, opportunity. All it's saying is, how long did I spend at each price? Well, in the first 30-minute period, I spent 30 minutes at these prices. The second 30-minute period. So can you see what's happening here? Let's look at it again. There's overlap. Can you see? Would you agree? And what it is, is you've watched the depth of market. The more time you spend, market orders are coming. Probably, you've got what? More volume building. So that's all it is. It's a proxy for volume. Can you see how the A, B, and C overlap here and look? A little bit of volume. And then look at B. There's no overlap with any other period. And it's thin. Look here, C period, which is the half an hour period between what? So that's up to 9.30. That's 10 to 10.30. 10.30 to 11. We went down, but then we came back in. You see loads of overlap happening at prices within this period. And look, volume's building. Look at this period here where we went down and then we came straight back up quickly. Same here in this period. How much time did we actually spend between 16.30 and 16.20? Well, very little of the 30-minute period. So we probably didn't build that much volume. And look, at the end of the day, the easiest way to figure out if this is accurate is looking where we spent the most time in the day. Did we get the most volume? Yeah, we did. You can see it here. So what you do is basically the market profiles. You just collapse it so you can actually, you know, so this K can come down here. Like I said, like the puzzle games where those, I used to play Tetris, and that's, you know, where you see we've just got one block, it's going to be thin, but where blocks are building on top of each other. So have a look at it. Obviously, you can play around with this as much as you want. I'm going to give you the template. So hold on. There you go. So do you see how it's combined now? So let's do that a few times. Do you see that? The K period was there. I'm just going to drop them on top of each other so I can see was there any overlap, i.e. more time spent at price, at particular prices. So let's have a look. OK. And by the way, look, it's important I say this, is that a lot of guys are looking at market profile. Honestly, in pretty much all institutions I've spoken to, I would say, you know, a massive number of people, they look at both volume profile and market profile just because of this reason that especially experienced traders, when transparent volume, a lot of it wasn't readily available, they obviously used market profile. So there's tons of people using market profile. Don't think it's, you know, you're the only, you know, honestly, there's loads of people using this. And in fact, I even I saw someone using this and the same colours, I liked it, the way it was got the faded colours going from A to K period. So I actually, it's one of the only good things I've actually found on the Internet when it comes to trading is actually some colours. So, yeah, I actually found these colours out there. So there is stuff out there. There's a lot of stuff out there. But like I said, they're not necessarily doing what I'm about to show you, which is the combination. So the combination is essentially, would you agree? There's balance on this Friday. And look, there was balance here. Thursday and Friday. So do you remember I said, I don't want, what's going to happen if I use a weekly profile? It's going to be so out of shape and I'm not going to use a weekly profile. But you can see it's going to be down here and there's going to be very little volume and then there's almost a separate distribution on Thursday, Friday. How do I combine these two? Well, look what volume profile, market profile allows us to do. See that? We can merge it. And actually what I do is, let's do undo that. I don't actually use it necessarily with the volume profile because it's too much. Can you see there's too many things going on? So what I do is, and don't worry, I'll set all this stuff up for you as I just get rid of the volume profile because it's fairly accurate. You can see. So in fact, let's just make ourselves comfortable that it's very closely aligned to volume profile. Can you see here? Very little time spent up there. And then obviously, there was a lot of time spent in this region. Okay. They're very similar, aren't they? So what I do is, is I get rid of the profile and I'll show you basically what that enables us to do. So let me just quickly get rid of this. Apologies for the delay. Okay. So honestly, it's just, it's like art, isn't it? It's beautiful. Still gives me that little excitement whenever I see this stuff. So yeah, what this allows us to do, obviously, Crude Oil has been very volatile, so the profiles won't necessarily generally be this big. And when we go through and do some examples, we're going to do it in nice balanced periods, but we'll also look at volatile periods. There's nothing wrong with it. I'm just saying that, look, the profiles won't obviously necessarily be this big. It's because the ranges, as you know, Crude at the moment is very volatile. So if I combine, look, if I combine, look, merge with the next, boom. Can you see it? Unbelievable, isn't it? And now, sorry, just undo that. Do you remember before I was saying I was really frustrated that I couldn't combine these because I used to think there was value, obviously, for the day here and then in this day here as well. And I wanted to bring them together rather than looking at the weekly together where value might be off or whatever. So I can do that now. So let me just show you that again. And you'll see why I do it as soon as I do it. So we combine, merge it there. Look how nicely the balance becomes. Why? Because you've got balance over very balanced days. And what does balance with balance create? Really nice balance. And therefore, these value areas are very, very accurate. They're nice. And when the market moves out of here, I mean, obviously, I don't know where it opened the next day, but generally what we'll be looking is for markets to either be imbalanced or they could reject going imbalanced and then come back to balance and move to the other side of value. And you'll see just how well this works. It works very, very well. Not because it's magic. Don't start. Do you remember I said be very careful about how you use these? But it works because that's where the iPhone price is or, you know, you'll see the market does like to test these areas because, as you know, balance isn't particularly generally one price. But we've already covered this in Ultra Market Theory. I don't necessarily. It's not the point of this section. This section is to show you what TPOs are or what market profile is. And we'll get onto all of this in the second half of this. And obviously, it's taken quite a while. So probably it's going to be in the next section. But so hopefully that gives you a good idea of why I'm using this stuff. And actually, let me just show you one final thing. Is the other reason that I like to use this is because it does allow you to split periods up. OK, so it's not necessarily the case here. But for example, this isn't a great example because it's a bit overdone. I wouldn't necessarily want to do this, but I will show you this when we start to develop strategy. Can you see, in theory, there's some balance here and then there's balance here as well. So what you can do is it's great because it's not, think about it, it's not individual market orders. It's split out. What I can actually do is I can say, you know what, let me split this period out. So do you see that I split the D period out and let me split the I period out. And don't worry, we're going to do a whole section on this stuff. OK, so can you see what it's allowed me to do? Now I've got my own distribution and I can actually combine this with this. OK. Do you see that? I've actually split very, very accurately. I've got value there and now I've got value here. Do you see that? I've actually been able to split this, this and this out. It's amazing, isn't it? So that's the power of market profile, not from an indicator perspective. It just allows us to really identify true value, true value balance. Don't think of value as just in terms of statistical terms where I talk about the Gaussian shape, the sorry, the bell curve, the normal distribution and the wonderful, obviously, mathematical properties when you've got balance, the value is going to be obviously not 100 percent accurate because we don't know. Those of you are familiar with statistics, you can always get fat tails, obviously, when you're trying to forecast. I get that. But generally, at least in terms of measuring balance, it's going to be very, very good. The more, not because of, yes, because of the statistical properties, but because it's balanced. At the end of the day, if something's balanced, it's more likely to what? Give you good balance levels. Really, that's what you've got to take away from this, is the balance. You want to look for areas that are nicely balanced. When you start combining these, as I said, you start to combine balance with imbalance with balance. Do you know what I mean? You want to try and separate them as much as possible. So it's really exciting. I'm really looking forward to showing you this. Let me just finish off those few bullet points really quickly. I'm going to literally rush through them and then we're going to basically get on and start building some of these composites together. And I'm going to get you on the charts building composites. And that's going to be how we do what? Build trading levels. So just to keep you motivated, this is essentially building trading levels for us to fade in a balanced market or in an imbalanced market, take trades off. So imbalance and then going to different areas of balance and so on. So we're very, very close now. I appreciate that you stuck with me. I know it's been long. Let's just quickly finish the list off and then we can crack on and start building some areas to do some real business off. OK, so what I've done is, if you don't mind, I've brought the slide pack, essentially the... Sorry, I'm just getting my pen here. So I just thought it'd be easier, rather than me blowing it up and showing you in here, why don't I just actually show you on my charts? I thought it'd be really good that I can just take you through some of these. But you'll notice I brought the volume profile back on just because I want to cover these first two. So basically, we already talked about the point of control, right? It's the mode where the most transactions took place. Now, what is volume profile? It's obviously very accurate because it's individual market orders. Write down if you've got say 100,000, 2, 3, 4, 500,000 contracts. And you saw that. I showed you the global volume, didn't I, for crude oil was what, about 800,000, 900,000, about 85% of that, so 600,000, 700,000 contracts. So we know the exact number that took place in the RTH session, right? I said it was about 80%. We can tell to the exact contract price, sorry, the exact price where that was. Because if you think of TPOs, they're only half period. So that's the mode, right? And if you don't remember what that is, check back to the distribution section. In, what do you call it, market profile, what you'll see, can you see the K period? They were all across four prices, okay? So what it is, is I'm not going to, and you'll also notice value area, we've covered it to death. Okay, there's the value area, there's 70%. What you'll notice is market profile's value area is ever so slightly different, and it's point of control is ever so slightly different. Now, obviously, you know, I'm not shirking responsibility. I've spent a long time doing theory with you guys. You know, I'm really, really big on understanding theory, that you can't Google. At the end of the day, I don't want to spend, waste 45 minutes of your time when we've got much more important things to worry about, about why there's an ever so slight difference here in the value area. If anyone wants, contact me. I can take you through exactly why. But obviously, it will take time to explain it. And I don't want to, you know, we've already gone on for ages here, and I don't, but I also, I'm pointing it out, because it's important. I like to let people know that there is a slight variation, because of this problem around the mode in the market profile can sometimes be at the same price. But look at the difference. As I said, you've got to be not obsessive about slight variation. So look, they're virtually about the same. Sometimes, as you can see here, I just noticed it. They can vary, you know, a little bit, but I can take anyone through it, exactly how it's calculated, why it is, etc, etc. And maybe in the future, I might add a section. But honestly, you can Google it. It's explained really well in the books that I told you about, you know, where's the value adder? I'm not going to be able to add value to you. You can find it on Google. It will take, it's a bit, it's a bit involved. That's what it is. And I don't want to start going off on tangents and confusing people when I've just spent the last seven hours doing theory or whatever. So look, there is a slight difference. But honestly, it's not important for trading. For me, it doesn't make a difference in my trading. But yeah, technically, if you want to know, reach out to me, drop me a message, and I'm happy to either add it in or explain it to you exactly to the tick why these value areas are slightly different. I mean, it's obvious that it would be right, because obviously, when you're calculating your statistical distribution here, obviously, when you're calculating your statistical distribution here, it's using individual outcomes, right? So it's market orders, individual. As you know, these are not market orders, right? They're not individual transactions. It's obviously data points using time at price. So obviously, the way it calculates distribution is slightly different to try and be as closely aligned to how the actual normal distribution. But you can see it's a bit involved. So I don't want to lose people, basically. So again, sorry to repeat the point. But yeah, if you're really interested, let me know. But otherwise, I'm not really going to cover these, because we've already covered them. And with the volume, it's called the VPOC, which if you said to someone in any professional environment, VPOC, they'll know straight away, Volume Point of Control from a volume profile. So it's exactly the same thing as the point of control that I already discussed in the distribution section. But just to repeat, it's basically the area whether most transactions took place. Value area, we've discussed it there. I'm not going to discuss it again. I just wanted to show you that. Can you see? It's very, very similar. That's the value area high. That's the value area high on a volume profile. So very, very similar. I just wanted to show you that they're pretty much one and the same, obviously, because of this issue where it's not market data. It is obviously going to be more accurate on a volume profile. But we don't want 100% accuracy. We just want approximation. So it's fine. Balance and imbalance, I'm not going to cover it, because we've covered it probably more than some of the whole entire Forex courses I've been speaking about balance and imbalance. So we've already covered it. So what I'm going to do is I'm just very quickly going to fly through single prints, excess, poor highs and lows, initial balance, etc. But just doing it on the, we don't need to look at volume profile for these, because these are quite specific things to market profile. So give me a second. I'm going to just get rid of the volume profile. OK, so I got rid of the volume profile. And actually, I'm just looking at it. You won't be able to see it. But you can make a note of it if you want. But the bullet points, it's easier because then I can have the whole sort of screen to work with. But we'll just go through them one by one. So the first one is single prints. So single print, what it is, guys, I'm going to go through this really quickly. Obviously, if you want more detail, it's all out there on Google. You can read the books and whatever. I don't see, as I said, 95, 90% of what's there. I don't use it in the way that it's used by market profile guys. But this is what I said. Prove it to yourself. Don't just take my word for it. Look, I mean, I've got years of observing this, and I've found that you've just got to take a lot of this stuff with a pinch of salt. Because otherwise, what happens is you'll notice, and that's why I wanted you to read the market profile books, is they'll say, oh, when this excess happens, and when single prints happen, and when poor highs and lows happen, this has to happen. And I'm like, well, actually, I've been watching this a million times, and it hasn't happened. Do you see what I mean? I proved it to myself. But I don't want, just because I tell you, I don't want you to do that. I want you to prove it to yourself as well, along with the million other things that, obviously, I'm showing you. But we're going to, obviously, just for the sake of completion, I do want to explain very briefly what they are. So single prints is the first one. Guys, very simple, just that. It's where in a region, say you've got profile, obviously, that's high to low, not necessarily the value area. Anywhere in here where you've got single prints. You see, in volume profile, obviously, that's meaningless. It's a market profile term. Can you see it there? E-period between that price and that price, say around 62, this is crude oil from a few months ago, by the way, 62.25 to 62.35, it only printed the E-period, single prints. Here, this price, 63.10 to 63. By the way, I absolutely love market profile if it isn't obvious. I love this thing. But yeah, it's printed single prints here. Very versatile. And I love volume profile as well. But obviously, each has its strengths and weaknesses. Combining them together when we get very advanced is very powerful. But anyway, enough of that. So yeah, single prints, you can see them there. Can you see in that F-period? We can even break this out if we want. You can see the market just zipped through. There's no overlap. That's what single prints are. What does it mean? I mean, this is the thing. You can read the books, it'll tell you this, it'll tell you that. I'm just going to tell you from my own experience, what it means is that, generally, if you've got a period that will balance over this one, so for example, here, clearly, the market opened, it balanced. I'm talking about this area here. Opened it, balanced. I'm talking about this area here. Then it came down, it went imbalanced, and then we balanced here. What you'll find from my experience, and again, observe this for yourself, do not take my word for it, is let's say, I mean, obviously, here, the market gapped down, but let's say it didn't. Let's say the A-period opened here, and then you built, obviously, a bunch of A's, you built a bunch of A's, whatever, and then B's and B's and B's and C, C, C. I'm just making all this up, you know, and D's. So this was kind of your profile, and you started approaching this area, and then E, E, again, I'm making this up, guys, F. As it comes into this area, what you notice is this will just zip through. Typically, that's what happens. So in market terms, what will happen is the market will open, and it'll start to build some balance, and then it will just zip through, and then you see. Why is that? Think about it. What's happened in the past? Imbalance. What is a single print? It's just imbalance, isn't it? Balance, imbalance, balance. You can see it here, balance. Came down, imbalance, balance. That's what the market's doing all day long, imbalance, balance, imbalance. So here, clearly, if there was no interest, what's going to happen? It's going to be the same. Generally, I'm not saying every single time. This is the trouble when you read these books and whatever I want you to see for yourself that can be very dogmatic. Me, I don't know. It depends on all the other factors. Where's the VWAP? Where's value on a different perspective? Where's this? Where's that? Is there order flow, supportive? Can things come together? Yeah, it probably is going to push through. Do you see what I mean? Whereas the books will say, nope, single print's got to push through. This is my point. When you start to really develop a holistic understanding of markets, you can really start to, you know, know whether this stuff is going to be a supportive factor or not, etc., etc. So that's single print. Hopefully, I think I even covered that probably better than the book, but go and read the book if you want, like I said, or do it, because it is going to go into a lot of detail about this stuff. Personally, I think that's all you need to know, but again, figure that out for yourself. Then the excess, essentially, is just their tails. I haven't written them down on bullet points, but they're basically buying and selling tails. So you can see it here. I'm sorry if I end up covering any of this stuff, but you can see loads of tails here. Can you see that tail there? That's a tail there. That's a tail. That's a tail. So it's single prints, but at the edges of profile, they're just tails, basically. Excess. Basically, the clue's in the word, isn't it? It's pretty obvious. It means that the market got excessive in that period. So A period there, you can see what happened. It did gap up, but basically the market... This is a better example because it happened after the market opened. Can you see that? The C period. Excessive. Market got overextended, right? Simple as that, really. And then it came back down. And what it is, is I'll tell you why it's quite useful. But again, you can read the book because the book will give you loads of strategies on this. I don't use any of that stuff. To me, personally, I just like profile for the merges and things. But the thing is, I did used to get obsessive. And this is the point. When I read the book, the books and obviously stuff I was taught in institutions and what people told me and they would tell me about excess and this and that, I still hear about it all the time. And it does make me laugh because I did used to get quite obsessive about it. And it was through experience I realised that. Do you know what? At the end of the day, there's another nine factors that will determine whether the excess is useful or not. As a standalone, basically, why is excess useful? Because don't forget, you could be... So let's split this out, actually. If we split out the D period. Think about it. You could be one and a half hours into the day, right? And I used to do this. So I used to watch market profile. So, you know, as I said, it's 9 to 9.30, 9.30 to 10, 10 to 10.30, right? And you can see, it even told you where it closed. Come 10.30, I can see, oh, we've produced excess and therefore we're probably going to have to unwind the excess. So the D period is probably going to pull back, OK? So it can be useful, but the problem was I used to get too stuck in that without looking at the other things that, to me, are more important, which we'll obviously come on to, you know, like VWAP over different time periods and some other stuff. Order flow, obviously, is important as well. Cumulative delta, which I look at. So you can see why, in theory, on its own, it is quite useful when people do like to look at excess. OK, so hopefully that was useful for you. And then we look at poor highs and poor lows. So this is really interesting, OK? Poor highs and poor lows, again, this is why I want you to read the book. You're not going to see, the way I explain to you poor highs and poor lows, you'll never see it explained. I've noticed this, there's a real lack of understanding over what's actually happening here. So there are, poor highs and poor lows do get taken out and essentially, can you see, it's called an unfinished auction. Do you see how generally, 90% of the time, you get tails, you get excess, right? Why is that? Because the market will start, it will excess and then it will come back and it will balance. Excess, overextend itself, come back and balance. Extend, come back, balance. Extend, come back, balance. Extend, come back, balance. Open the day up there, A period, come back in and balance. And by the way, I do apologise if I didn't make that clear, that you can see the open and close is marked there, right? That blue, that's where it opened, that's the close. OK, so I apologise if I didn't say that before, but that's why I'm saying it opened there, excess and came back, then here you got excess, came back. But can you see on this day, we didn't get any excess. H, I, K period, they were all at the lows and those, 99% of the time, they will get taken out, but in the book and even in institutions to some extent, the way I hear them being explained is wrong, basically. Let me see if I might not be able to find it. You can see one there as well, poor low, which got taken out later on. But yeah, so that, those are pretty solid ones that I would say. I just want to see if there's any others. I don't think there are. So what it is, is it's called an unfinished auction. What basically, the way I've heard it explained is that sellers weren't able to do business, finish their business. So in the way you get excess here, sellers were able to do their business, albeit they got overextended, but they'd done their business and then they were done, kind of thing. Or the market completed this selling auction. Over here, there was no excess to complete the auction. What actually happened is the selling inventory basically needed to rebalance. So what happened is, you can see there were three periods. So if you think of it in chart terms, because they're quite close together, it's not, you can't actually see that. But if you think of it on a five or 10 minute chart or whatever, if you think about what actually happened here, market was balanced for a while, then it came down, then it came up. Age period, eye period, came down, right eye period, then came up for a couple of periods again, then it came down. Markets don't usually do this. They will usually, as you know, they'll take stocks out or whatever. They'll have this excess type of action, where it will more be like, boom, and then that's it, you're done, and then you move higher, don't you? And whatever. There'll be excess, where wee cans got flushed out, or whatever the reasons are, it doesn't matter. So this, the way I've heard it explained, is that what's happening is that people have come down, they weren't able to produce excess, they came down again, they weren't able to finish the selling. The sellers, the selling inventory needed to rebalance, weak hands needed to be taken out before a renewed push, and the theory is therefore, you'll get taken out. And by observation, I'll be honest with you, it does get taken out. But I don't understand this whole wee cans thing. I mean, I get wee cans, but I don't get it in the context of this, the way it's explained. Actually, what's happening, and I know because obviously, you know, I worked on a, as you know, when I was on the sterling desk, I worked in a interbank environment. And actually, I'll tell you what's happening. And even guys in proprietary firms don't know this. And obviously, I was fortunate, like I said, to have worked on a desk where I saw a lot of this flow coming in in these areas. What's actually happening is, people that are getting long here, they're placing stops. So if you think about it like a cone shape, there's some stops being placed here. Okay, then it flattens out for a bit. Then you see here, then more people get long, more stops. Now don't forget the stops here are being combined with new stops here. So you can see the stops are growing. By the time you get to this stage, you've got the stops of these longs, these longs, and these longs. That is actually what's happening. You won't find this anywhere, by the way. Nowhere have I seen this. It's not some secret, it doesn't really make a difference to me. Obviously, I've said, you know, I'd rather you be discreet about stuff, but whatever, no one's going to make millions out of this. But the point is, at least you should know what's happening, rather than half the nonsense I hear about unfinished auctions and whatever, it's all nonsense. Basically, this is what's happening. Stops, and it makes sense, right? Long, long, long, stop behind the low, long stop behind the low, so it builds up. Long stop behind the low, so you just get stops building. And the market knows this, and it needs to clear out the inventory before moving higher or continue on its merry way. But typically, I do pay attention to this just because if you're trying to get long in this area, you probably want to wait for these stops to just be taken out, especially if they're built up, because 99% of the time the market is going to do this. And I'm going a little bit off topic here, but it's important, because books ain't going to tell you this stuff. I'm telling you this from real trading experience is that. The problem, however, with this and being obsessed with it, is I've also noticed is if you get an amazing setup for, you know, you've got some amazing contextual level here, order flow is strong, you're getting value being built here, and you've got some great achievable levels up here, and you've got this poor load down here. Guys, I'm going to take the trade, right? Whereas people who become obsessed with this, they're going to say, no, they're going to miss out, OK? And this is why I say, don't just take my word for it. Watch out for these things, and you will as you develop as a trader. So actually, I think I've explained poor highs and lows better than the book. But again, and I don't mean that in an arrogant way. You know, I'm obviously being quite serious about that. Obviously, I feel I've given you stuff you're not going to get out of a book. OK, and then the last thing is there's letters versus blocks, but let me come back to that in a second. There's initial balance, which I'm not really going to cover in any detail here. All it is, is can you see this A period is 30 minutes? This B period is the next 30 minutes. A lot of people, I don't look at it. A lot of people, and you can read on Google about this. I'm not going to cover in depth because I don't even look at it. But they like to look at this as the initial balance period. Some people use, I do like, I'm going to be honest with you, I do like to use five minutes sometimes, but I don't use the initial balance. I like to look at the market in the first five minutes. And the reason people do that, and the reason that's not the initial balance, because the initial balance is one hour generally, I think that's too long a period. The reason people do that is because, like I told you, it's the pit open and people get their business done. So what you will notice is the theory is that it gives you very good, let me find a good example. Do you see why I don't even like it? You have to end up cherry picking. And I don't really find it that great. But the theory behind it, I'll tell you anyway, the initial balance period is. And I do know a lot of people that look at it. Like I said, personally, I don't. A and B, that's one hour, right? We know A is half an hour, B is half an hour. So what people do is they take, these are contextual levels. So the high and the low, essentially, of the, they call it the initial balance high. Okay. And the initial balance low. If you say this to anyone in a professional firm, they're going to know what you're talking about straight away. And essentially, you're either looking for rejection at the initial balance high, or obviously here you see the market went up, built some value and then went imbalanced. Okay. So like I said, I don't necessarily use it, but that for completion, I'll obviously let you know. But you can read lots about that on the net. What it is, is basically the reason why it's popular is obviously the pit volume is taking place, like I said, in the first period, you know, so a lot of people getting orders done and business is being done for the day. So the theory is direction is being set in the first hour. So, you know, something that I don't particularly use. I use a shorter period, but we can speak about that later. But that's the initial balance. And then finally, guys, is I'm going to be honest with you. I actually prefer, I don't like using the letters. Okay. I actually prefer using blocks. So there is this option. I mean, it's up to you what you use. You can use letters or you can use blocks. Okay. Now, unfortunately, the chart's gone a bit haywire, but okay. Sorry about that. Yeah, you can see the chart just went a bit, decided to get into its mind of its own there for a second. But actually, it was good that it did that because what I decided to do and it's much better is I thought I'd actually show you the letters and the blocks. So then you can see that poor low that we discussed. There's the initial balance, the A period, B period. Do you remember? And we said that was the initial balance, low and high, and then it just went in balance. So you can see the exact same thing here. And there, can you see the poor low with the three dots? What it is is, I mean, it's up to you. I used to be quite obsessed with market profile. Like I said, I very quickly stopped any behaviours where I started to notice myself becoming a little bit too like rules-based and things. And I just got rid of the letters. I'll be honest with you, I don't really find the letters any use because it was actually like people were saying, oh, do you see what happened in the A period? But the C period did this and D period. And no, I just stopped that at once. I was like, you know what? Let me use it for what I originally wanted to use it for, which is to merge and to build nice balanced theories. So for me, that's it. But again, I want you to go on that journey. It's an incredibly useful journey. If you want to play around with it, it's a brilliant tool and come to the conclusion yourself. Or you can do what I do. And I'm going to be, what am I going to do? Yeah, going forward, I'm not going to show any of these because this isn't a market profile course at the end of the day. This is combining many factors together. And really, this is a dangerous thing for me to do if I was to start pointing excesses out and single prints and this and that. So I wouldn't do you any favours, in my opinion. But I also do think, as I've said many times, that you should maybe try the letters for a bit and see if you reach the same conclusion as me. But yeah, I just want to make it clear that I'm not going to use these letters going forward. But those reasons are about 90% of it. But also, look, I can see one, two, three, four, maybe half there, a few profiles there. Here, look how many I can see. Loads. I can see so much more information. And I'm not bothered about these little tails and this and that. It doesn't do it for me. From observation, obviously, I proved it to myself. And I mentioned this at the start of this section, where I talked about the book. And you can probably see why. Because I went through that process. And some people did warn me about it. And some people told me it was amazing. I said, you know what? Let me just figure it out for myself. Let me read what's out there, the literature, and let me go and observe it. And my observations told me that the other stuff I'm looking at is much more important than becoming too obsessed about this. So I just stopped. And I find, don't get me wrong, I find my market profile incredibly useful. But for the purposes that I mentioned, which is obviously to look at balance areas, these little other nuances that I've talked about, like all the single print excess, poor highs and lows, and those kind of things. If they're there, I'm obviously aware of them, but they're very low down on my list of priorities. So that's it. And the only thing left to do is the shapes. So let's just very quickly talk about the shapes. And then we're going to end this section. OK, so the first shape is fairly straightforward. It is a D. So I'll show you, obviously, by pen, and then I'll try to see if I can find a good example. D shape is what? Just balance, right? You can see it there. I've talked about the Gaussian, the bell-shaped distribution, the nice sort of volume, right? So balanced volume. So you can see it there. And then, obviously, you've got a very bad drawing of value area and then the central bit, basically. So let me just do that again, because that was pretty atrocious. Yes, you've got your, basically, your D, isn't it? That's your D. And then that's obviously, in theory, your what? Your POC, right? Or VPOC, or whatever you want to call it. And then nice balance there. So you can see that it's a nice D shape. It's just, basically, what it, in theory, means is the day was balanced. And there's no clue as to what the direction is likely to be for the next day. The next one that is often talked about is P. OK, it generally means short covering. So probably more useful if I draw it down further. Down here. So let's say the market, you know, obviously, has got short. And it just covers those shorts. And then it's likely to go up, isn't it? Because it's basically liquidating the short inventory very quickly. That's why you get a very quick move up in balance. Balance. And then the next day, you tend to move higher. So this is an OK example. It's not the greatest. I mean, ideally, you wanted it to open there. But you get the principle. P. OK, so what it means is people got short, quickly liquidated. And then we balanced to then typically move higher. So that's, and I may have actually apologize. Let me just double check. Did I? No, I just missed my nose, didn't I? I'm sorry about this. I'm nice. But I hate editing stuff out. And I don't want to necessarily. I just want to make sure you got that. So it looks like you did. In fact, that was. So let me just move it out of the way for you. Unfortunately, I can't see myself. So just to make sure you've got that, it's obviously this, isn't it? When the markets moved down. And essentially, those shorts have done what? Quick liquidation. Obviously, if this wasn't a short, fast liquidation, you would have seen what? You would have seen volume here, right? It would have been a different shape. But shorts got liquidated, we came up, we consolidated and boom, we go up. That's the theory. Look, like I said, I don't use any of this stuff. I said it before. To me, I'm going to be honest with you, it's nonsense. Because from observation, I don't see it happening that way. There's a ton of other factors that's going to determine if the market is going to obviously rally the next day. So I do sometimes laugh at these things that I read and even that they teach. You'll see even professional firms teach these shapes and whatever. I think they're OK, which is good to know about them. And I don't actually think that they're trying to mislead you. But I do think that what they're trying to get you to do is use this as a foundation and observe and figure out for yourself. Nah, that's not right. That's not right. You go through a process of elimination. So obviously, coming back to the point, obviously, the opposite of the P is what? The B. So this is short liquidation, consolidation, go up. This is what? Long liquidation. Guys got long, had to liquidate for whatever reason, stopped whatever market changes. Very quickly, consolidation and then boom. The other way, it's just the opposite. You can see here, look, B shape. And this is actually a pretty OK example, I suppose. But again, it didn't open here, did it? And then go up. It's the best example I could find in terms of the shape. But you get the principle. In theory, what they're trying to say is the market's tried to get long and actually, boom, liquidated out everyone, consolidated for a couple of days and then crash. So that's in theory what that's doing. And then the final one, again, you'll read about, it's quite funny in the book, you'll read about like a thousand different variations. Read about them, you know, even just out of interest. And like I said, go through this, try to observe them. In my opinion, doesn't really tell you much because there's a thousand other things going on. This is just too much looking at it from a single lens. There's too many lenses out there for this to hold accurately every time. So, you know, if you want to use it, use it by all means. But at least prove it to yourself, you know, through observation that you don't think it has any staying power. For me, it doesn't. So I don't use it. But like I said, I went through that process. B shape is OK. You know, it's like a double distribution day. So you can kind of see it here. In fact, this is quite a nice example of a B shape. Can you see that B shape? It's just a double distribution day. So what it means is that the market had two balances. It was trendy. It's, you know, what it's saying. Even though I don't necessarily like that word. Can you see it was balancing here? Then we moved up and it balanced here. Do you see that? So what does that do? It causes a B to form. OK. And the theory is obviously you build some value, you go up. If you build value and you fail to go balanced and fill in this lack of volume, the theory is you continue. Continuation. That's the theory. Does it happen in practice? I don't know. The problem is, like I said, there's just there's just too many factors driving the market for it to just be as simple as, oh, if we balance, we go up, we balance and we fail to form, you know, the distribution, which would be what? To come back here and fill in this imbalanced area to obviously form a nice distribution, then the theory is, well, you might as well you're going to continue. But, you know, you're going to get this. This is all sorts of stuff going on. It's my point. I don't necessarily haven't really found it to be of any value to me. Having said, I did look at it when I first got into profile on a chart anyway, and I heard about all this stuff. Obviously, like everyone, I thought, let me have a look at it. I didn't dismiss anything, but I can tell you right now, I certainly didn't throw money at it until I'd been 100 percent sure whether it works. And to me, it didn't. So that's it. But look, thanks for sticking through that. I know it ended up actually being a long session, but I'm really happy with the way it came out, covered everything. A market profile. And what we're going to do next is we're very much now going to just give you a sneak preview. We're going to start combining and building contextual levels. And it's really exciting to emerge areas. And yeah, we're going to start looking at market opportunities around contextual levels. We're going to see, oh, imbalance. If it comes back in, then we look at balance in this area, come back out, and so on and so forth. Obviously, I'll combine a lot of these and you'll see the market does tend to go to the other side and then we get imbalanced opportunities. It all looks like a bit of scribbling, but we're going to do this together now in the next section. So, yeah, that's market profile. I hope that was useful to you. And we can now start to actually use it because obviously you've got at least enough of an understanding of it for us to start looking at it on the chart. So don't forget, I'm going to look at it in blocks because I don't really find any use in those letters, but you're more than welcome to. I'll leave in the template, probably put both on if you want the other one, or maybe I won't. And I'll just show you obviously the option of how to change it. All right, guys, see you in the next section. Cheers.