Hello, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to stage two. Brilliant job, you know, stage one was very long, but ultimately it was necessary. And I want to say just three few words about the transition from stage one to stage two. It's important because obviously we're at that bridge now and you've just come off, you know, a huge stage. And probably for many of you, and this is a great thing, right? Being like, whoa, now I see markets in a completely different way to anything I've been shown before. And actually, it's nothing special, right? It's not like I've given you some sort of envies method. No, come on, at the end of the day, I hope you can all see. Every company in the world is just doing this and what other way is there? At the end of the day, if everyone's buying a product at 10 pounds, that's fair value, right? What, you're not going to go and say, no, it's 20 pounds. I mean, it's obvious, right? Transactions are driving the market. It is so fundamental and basic to any market, auction or price in the real world. Forget about pound, dollar and, you know, stocks and oil, who cares? I'm not even talking about that. I'm talking about sellotape. I'm saying that because I've got sellotape in front of me. But in all seriousness, I am, right? Sellotape, keyboard, mouse. Um, there's a cup in front of me, salt, um, pens, whatever. Oh, you might be wondering why I've got salt on my desk is because I was eating on my desk earlier because I was in the midst of trading. So I don't normally do that. The Mrs. Fern actually killed me. But anyway, there's salt on my desk. And the point is that the price of that fluctuates. Why? Because people are buying it at that price that it sells in the shops at, right? There's no other way of looking at it. So my only point is that I haven't given you anything that I've invented or something special, right? So I hope you can see now, whenever anyone ever says to you again, guys, I've got this amazing method and it tells you what, how to make money in the markets. You can see now, complete and utter cobblers, right? Which is, I don't know if you've heard of that term, slang, I believe it's British, I don't know. But yeah, it's cobblers, it's garbage, it's rubbish. I mean, of course it's garbage. At the end of the day, the only thing that's driving the market is the market, people buying and selling at certain prices, right? Anyway, the point of why I said all of this, and there is a reason I always say that, that even though I waffle on for a long time, there's always a purpose behind it, is because I know that, and I saw this again and again and again, even in institutional circles. Basically, I talked about failure rates, as I said before, in the reality check video, and even those in the professional circle, the failure rate was so high, it was because, you see, the things that I taught you in, say, part of stage one, like drawing composites, the majority of people would have come away with that, saying, yep, I can do that, I fancy a bit of that, basically, and I like the way it gives me two lines to trade off, brilliant, that's it. Every time it bounces, I'm gonna do this, when it doesn't, I'm gonna do that, no. Can you see why I'm even talking about this here? Because you've just come off the back of doing that, and I wanna make sure that you haven't come out of stage one thinking, you know what, I've cracked stage one, I can do the composites, guys. No, because it's such a small part of it, honestly, it's not even 5% of stage one, it's really nothing. I'd rather someone is really struggling to do the composites, and it's just like envy, I just don't get the composites, but actually, I get all of the other stuff. I get the auction market theory, I get the basic statistics, I understand why value areas in the normal distribution, they're not perfect, I get it, because in the theoretical world, market orders would be uniformly distributed and sort of spread out either side of the VPOC or the mode or whatever you wanna call it. However, I did notice that when I was looking at volume profile, market profile, it doesn't matter, either one, I noticed they weren't always perfect, envy, I did notice that, that the normal distribution model is perfect, but actually, when I was looking at profile, I saw profiles like this, where there was chunks missing out the middle, I saw profiles with two chunks missing or three chunks missing, so they were fairly balanced, but they weren't exact, and therefore, I understand that this value area or the fair value that I'm getting here, it's not perfect, right, because there's chunks missing, the market orders are not distributed evenly like you would get in a perfect normal distribution. I understand, this is just a theoretical model of the world. The reality is these lines are just guides. Why do I say that? Because here, I'm talking about individual profiles, right? What's a composite? Doesn't matter whether you've joined two, three, 20, it's a profile, it's just a profile, and at the end of the day, you're gonna see that I use the levels on composites. Sorry, that's a terrible drawing. That is not what profiles can look like, but I use the levels on composites, right? So let's draw perfect. Let's say that is some perfect composites, and you merge all of these three. You're gonna get what? One big composite like that, right? Well, it doesn't work like that in real life, does it? You're gonna have probably three like all of these shapes, and I'm not gonna draw them out, but ultimately, in real life, you've seen it, you get weird-shaped composites. They're not, I mean, they're fairly accurate, but they're not perfect, and therefore, these composite levels that you've been drawing, I had you draw the boxes on, you've gotta see them for what they are. That's all my point is, and that's why I talked about failure rates. You know, again, it's not because I'm some sort of pessimist and I want you to think there's no hope. No, the opposite. I wanna give you the best chance of success, and I don't want you to fall into the trap that even the 90% in the professional firms that failed fell into, all right? Now, I hope none of you are sitting there like sitting there thinking, no, it can't be that high, like even the failure rate. No, you know what? What I would say is, look, just accept it. It's facts. You can see it. It'll be out there anyway, and embrace it. Deal with it. I mean, how can I actually get into that real small cohort that actually make it? Well, this is really a big part of it. It's like, obviously, all the stuff I talked about in the reality check about trading live money, which I hope you're not, because I made it clear. If you are, well, probably not for you until you stop doing that. This is really now, I'm talking about the guys who, you know, we're now eating our way through the 50, 60, 70%. You've now got to the guys, by you, you're obviously part of that, potentially, if you've understood stage one properly, where you're in that final sort of leg, not to consistency, but to potentially breaking through at least, you know, the first hurdle of many. But in terms of the actual learning, obviously, you are now in the final stages, and this is some of more of the advanced reasons why even the people who did all the stuff I say in the reality check still didn't quite make it. It's because, like I said, they kept treating this stuff as an indicator. Because think about it. I could have just done stage one, right, and just said, guys, market profile, merge them, there you go, composites, levels, we're going to trade off them. Why didn't I just do that? I spent 90% of my time explaining auction market theory to you so you understand what these levels are. The final word I want to say and why it's so important is that you understood it properly is because you may have noticed the pace has really started picking up. Obviously, first you did depth of market, and I've got you doing some exercises, and the pace was fairly slow. Then I've suddenly thrown you in, obviously, with the composite stuff, and you're looking at the depth of market, but on a chart. So obviously, there's a few more things to, because you're looking at multiple volume profiles, multiple depth of markets, and combinations, and obviously, there's statistics. I know the pace has picked up. Guys, imagine that pace. We're now going to times five that pace. That's the reason I say all of this is, look, don't hesitate to go back to stage one if you haven't understood it in the way that I've just mentioned, because I'm going to ask you to go back anyway and watch the probability section again. Don't hesitate to spend more time and really pick it up, because what's going to happen is you're going to start treating all of this stuff that I show you now, especially the VWAP, because you'll see, on the face of it, to those who don't understand it properly, they're going to think it's an indicator. Actually, it isn't. It's by far the most powerful observational statistic in the world when it comes to anything. It's the average, the weighted average. It's the most powerful descriptive statistic in the world. So you've got to see it for that and not see it as a line that you bounce off. So what I would suggest is, you know, take your time. If you don't, you know, hesitate to go back to section one. And final thing I wanted to say is, and I know I already said it was the final thing, but this is really the final thing now that I wanted to say was that, look, I understand that a lot of you have got jobs, you've got children, you've got commitments, and it's difficult to squeeze a lot of this stuff in. Embrace it. You don't realize you've got an advantage. There's no rush, okay? You're not going to get this overnight. I tell you, even at this stage, even when you finish this course, you're not going to be making money anytime soon. You're going to have to go through a simulator. You're going to make mistakes. You know, before you hit that road to consistency, it's going to be some time, let's be honest. And I've been honest about that. So use that to your advantage. You know, in a professional firm, this is my point. The point is in a professional firm, there's so much pressure to get this stuff quickly. They don't teach it to you in anywhere near the detail that I've taught it to you. Well, I know that because I went, you know, to two of the top institutions in the world, as I keep saying, but I say it for a reason because I want you to know that. It's evidence-based what I'm telling you. I wasn't taught any of the stuff in stage one. I was just taught profile. This is profile. This is standard deviation. As in, they expected me to know what standard deviation was. They just said, there's the VPOC, there's the thing, whatever. And this is how we use it. I wasn't, so basically I got about 10% of what I've shown you in stage one. So my point is, take advantage of that. Take advantage of the fact that when I was in an institutional firm, there was a lot of pressure. I was expected to sit there 10, 12 hours a day, intensely cramming everything in, and then you have to try and succeed very quickly. And the point is, that's why the failure rate was also very high. If you've got this amazing opportunity to do it slowly with no pressure, and you might say, no, Envy, I've got pressure. I need to basically be successful quickly. Well, then I would say to you, I'm sorry to say, this isn't the game for you. Don't put a time limit on it. Yeah, obviously I talk about the nine to 12 month period, and that's a good time limit. But come on, probably what? We're into what? Some of you, obviously I asked you to spend three months on the depth of market. You should have spent at least a month on stage one, right? Maybe a couple of weeks absorbing stuff, couple of weeks doing the composites. So really, this should be month five for you now. And I know, no offense to those that have actually done what I asked them to, 90% of you, you're not gonna be on month five right now. You're probably gonna be in your second month, or your third week, or your fourth week, or your sixth week. You're not doing it correctly. I'm not having a go at you at all. I've got no problem. I know some people contact me and say, is it all right for me to go ahead? And I've got no problem with it. We're all adults, you've gotta learn at your own pace. My point is not that you've done it wrong by rushing ahead, even though in theory I didn't want you to. But the point is, that's fine. My point is that at least in your head, give yourself that four months that I've wanted you to have up to this stage. Maybe start looking at the VWAP stuff, but if it starts, this is the point, if it starts like, we are gonna go at a very fast pace now. If you're like, whoa, this is, oh, I can see I'm falling into this trap of just using it as some sort of strategy when it bounces here, I'm doing, no. Utilise that four months that you've got. So my point is, so I wanted you to do this, ideally, say you're hitting this about month five now. You've spent 16 weeks. If you're already in this section after three, four weeks, do you see you've got a gap of 12 weeks? So my point is, just use that. Keep it in reserve. Don't put the pressure on yourself to, if you get stuck at any stage in this VWAP section, or if you feel, coming off the back of stage one, that you're falling into this trap of just seeing it as lines, and you haven't maybe quite got the statistics section, or got the, you know, the auction market theory section. Go back, it's fine. You've got plenty of time, all right? And if you need more than four months, five months, who cares, this is my point. You've got to realise you're at a massive advantage to someone like me who was in a firm and I was under pressure to really get this very quickly, and then to start performing and producing for my firm. Otherwise, I'm out the door, right? No, you've got a golden opportunity here. Take your time, pace yourself. It's a lot to take in, I know. A lot of you have probably been fed a lot of garbage for years, months, whatever. And hopefully you can see now that that is the case. Take advantage of that. So look, anyway, let's crack on to the next slide. See how you get on with the VWAP stuff. Like I said, it's going to go at a pretty fast pace. And again, don't be shy or feel, you know, that you've failed if you have to go back. In fact, you've succeeded if you accept. Maybe it's a bit fast, I'm going to go back. If you get it, great, crack on. I'm not saying that, but I'm just saying, you know, obviously, take it the way that you need to, basically. Go at your own pace. You're not competing against anyone. So let's go to the next slide and then we'll start with looking at VWAP. Okay, traders, so we're going to crack on with the VWAP here. You can see I've put some bullet points on this slide. Really, before I get stuck in, and we're not long now away from actually combining VWAP with the composite levels to really start building some strategy. And I'll talk a little bit more about that, how we combine VWAP, which is just another form of value with composite levels, which are a different form of value. We'll talk a little bit about that. But first, you need to know what the VWAP is. Why is it so important? You may have heard of it before, you may not have. It doesn't matter. I'm going to assume no one's heard of it, so it's important that I cover the theory. And as I hinted at for, you know, 15 minutes before I started this section, the same as in stage one, I said, yeah, it's all well and good. You can do some composites, but the VWAP stuff as well, you're going to see, you know, yeah, that makes, I see the prices bouncing off the VWAP or the standard deviation band of the VWAP. Now, this is much more important. They actually understand what it's telling you. Then, of course, you can develop an understanding of rhythm. And I talked about, well, I haven't talked about it, but I'll mention it in the bullet points of context, rhythm and acceptance. We can look at that. And VWAP really helps you to understand market rhythm, but, you know, that's more when you get on the charts. Let's actually understand what this thing is. So VWAP is the volume weighted average price. And actually, I'm going to say in the next slide, but if you didn't understand exactly what this was, we're going to look at it so briefly in the next slide, because I already covered this in the stage one probability section. So I want you to go back to that, but more on that later. But essentially, it's the average price. It's the most powerful statistic in the world. And I'm not talking about moving average. That's all rubbish. I'm talking about the actual average that takes into account transactions that have taken place at every level. So we're going to discuss that. Rather than go into it here, it's just obvious, right? I mean, at the end of the day, you're using it all the time. You don't probably realise you're using it unless I point it out to you. You may do, and I apologise if you do, but obviously there'll be a lot of you that don't even realise you're using this descriptive statistic probably every day and you don't realise it. So like I said, you're using it in everyday life. So clearly that's not necessarily in financial markets, is it? It's going to be in things like, let's say you're trying to find out the performance of how well, I don't have children, but let's say I had a son or a daughter and they went to school. They might get a whole bunch of grades, right? Generally, do not say to them, how did you do on average? Did you do well? Did you do not well? Do you see, that's an average. That's the volume weighted average price. Obviously it's not weighted by volume, but it's weighted by grades at each level. You know, if they got five As, four Bs and one D, they're not going to, they might go into detail with you, but as a general description, if they were only allowed to use one word, they would say, I did well on average. Do you see, it's weighted by, they didn't, it's not like, see, when you do moving averages, it's like, oh, I got A, B, D, whatever. I can't even remember exactly what I said, but if they got five As and they got four Bs, but they only got one D, see, it's weighted towards the As and Bs and they can then say, on average, I did well. Used in sports all the time. You know, if, I don't know if you're a sports person, I'm not going to talk about a specific sport, but let's just say any sport, right? I talked about it with cricket in the probability section, but any sport where the scores are, let's say you have a period of 10 matches and the scores are 200, 200, zero, 200, 200, 200, 190, 200, 200, 200. If someone says, how did you do? You're going to be, well, on average, you've got about 200. You're going to say, oh, I've got 200, 200, zero, 200, 200. You see, you're not going to say that. We talked about this a lot in the probability section, which is why I actually do want you to go back to it, but we said, didn't we, with, obviously, if the government asked you to go and get heights of people in your country, you would come back and, obviously, you would give them an average number. You wouldn't sit there telling them every single person in the whole country, right? It's just the most powerful descriptive statistic in the world, bar none, okay? And the way that I've described it to you, it's exactly the same for financial markets. That's why every single institutional investor in the world knows what the VWAP is, okay? I've never met anyone who doesn't know what it is, at least know of it, using it. Every single algorithm in the world is aware of the VWAP, okay? You need to know this. It's just, it isn't an indicator. It's just, like I said, the average. It gives you a measure of performance in a way that's universally accepted, okay? So people talk about self-fulfilling, Fibonacci. We all know that's garbage, right? I mean, end of the day, you don't, like I said, if you've got a child and they say, how did you do? They're not gonna say, well, my grades bounced off the 50% Fibonacci, so I did all right. It's ludicrous. But they may say, on average, I did pretty well. Done okay. Scores, we just talked about in score. They say, well, my grades, my, sorry, my scores, where we talked about the 200, 200, bounced off the trend line between zero and 200, so I did okay. No, of course not. So on average, about 200. Most universally accepted measure. So if there was ever a self-fulfilling number in the world, it's the average. And you see that. You know, I talk about it. I'm gonna jump down and come back just because I'm mentioning it here. Like I said, every single algorithm in the world is aware of this property that we just talked about. I haven't just made this up, right? You experience it every day. People always ask you, how did you do? Rather than have to explain, you know, every single hundred outcomes of whatever they're asking about you, on average, I did all right, I did this. It's on average, right? So obviously everyone's aware of this, especially algorithms, which make up, as I've said before, about 80, 85% of the market. So in markets like ES, where it's mean reverting, guys, algorithm knows not only computationally is the market gonna revert to the mean, but also because of this self-fulfilling nature that people know, that typically, towards the end of the day, the market likes to settle at its average fair value, right? Makes sense. We've talked about this a lot in auction market theory. You try to always seek fair value. If there's no other measure, where are you gonna go to the average? You're gonna go to the average. Now, it's virtually identical, right, to volume profile. In fact, in many ways, it is volume profile, because at the end of the day, I've already talked about this again, and I want you to go back to the probability section if this doesn't make sense, but what data is causing a market profile to build? Market orders. What are we using to calculate VWAP? Market orders, okay? This will become clearer, but I have already talked about this, this statistics section, but it's exactly the same, okay? Basically, the VWAP, you can mark it on a volume profile. So yeah, it's basically just taking it off there and putting it as a line. It's basically an evolving volume profile, and which brings me on to my next point. It's basically, and this is gonna be a mouthful for many. Don't worry, we're gonna talk about this a lot in this section. I needed the theory section, because the VWAP, for example, may just be a line with the bands, the standard deviation bands, and that could be the VWAP, and at the end of the day, it's very dangerous that you just see that as some sort of line indicator. It's not. Basically, what it is is I found it really difficult, I was having a look online over the last couple of days to see if there's anything on the VWAP out there. Honestly, I haven't seen anything decent on the VWAP. By all means, I always say don't take my word for it. Go on YouTube, type in VWAP, but you're not gonna see it explained the way that I explain it to you. Basically, the VWAP, it is exactly what I put there. That is all it is. It's the intraperiod dynamic evolution of the volume profile, okay? That's gonna be a mouthful. I'm gonna show you that. It helps us identify, basically, as the profile is developing throughout the day if there's any balance or imbalanced shifts within there. So again, I'm gonna come back to this. I just wanna kind of put this seed in your mind before we move forward, and then also, obviously, if the profile, for example, let's say it starts off really thin, and you see this. This is what I had you on the depth of market, and it just builds throughout the day, right? So then you get a bit more volume. Can you see? That's later on in the day, and then it ends up like that. You can't really have one, two, three, and however many profiles side by side. It's not practical, is it? So if the mean started off, say, here, and then it was here, and then it was here, do you see it's not really gone anywhere? So that's what that line is. That is the VWAP. It's just a line, and you see that line tells me, oh, my profile was balanced throughout the day. This will make sense as we go on, but essentially, that's all it is. It's just telling me how the shape of my volume profile evolved throughout the day, because you can imagine, practically, I can't have 1,000 iterations of how the volume profile looked throughout the day. It's impossible, right? I need a line that kind of describes how the shape has changed, and this gives me trading opportunities throughout the day. So again, I did say before, the pace is gonna pick up, so hopefully, you can get it, but again, that's why I say, don't stress. Just maybe work through the first few slides and see if it's kind of making sense to you. If not, maybe go back and do some of the prior sections before. So this gives us that kind of dynamic measure, rather than having to wait for the profile to close. Do you see, it gives us kind of this leading edge into what the shape of profile, not only is likely to be, but obviously, we can see that, but more how it's developed throughout the day and how the market is likely to react to that. So this will make a lot of sense as we go through. Right now, I'm just giving bullet points to kind of give you an idea of what to expect that's about to come as we move forward. Well, I'm just gonna briefly say this. It'll become obvious, but basically, because it's always evolving, you can't make composites, because otherwise, it would just become too, it won't really mean anything, it's meaningless. You'll see that it's ever-evolving, right? Every second a new market order comes in, the VWAP changes, obviously. Just like any average, when you get new data, average changes. So I'll show you that anyway, very briefly. We already talked about the mean reverting nature. Now, this absolutely crucial, I'll remind you of this towards the end of the section, but essentially, the VWAP is used by institutions and clients heavily. This is a fact, I saw it a million times. I used it myself heavily when I was in an institution. And essentially, you'll see, there's a lot of brokers out there that will offer you sort of guaranteed VWAP execution at a cost, obviously, because at the end of the day, it's, like I said, it's the benchmark. It's the world's most universally accepted benchmark. On average, where was the price today? All right, I want to buy the market today. So as an investment bank, we may be receiving a lot of client calls saying, I want to execute at the VWAP. I want you to get me VWAP execution for the day. You've got to understand, guys, it's basically the bedrock of value or performance across the whole institutional world. And this just sort of adds more proof to it, is all I'm saying, is the fact that institutions are using this all the time. They're measured on it. You know, if you're a client and you're trying to measure performance and you've given five different investment banks orders to fill, how do you compare them? Well, the easiest way to compare them is obviously to benchmark them against the VWAP over time to see if they're getting you execution better than. Now, obviously, depending on if you're buying or selling, you know, they're going to want to fill your orders below the VWAP, you know, to get you better execution. Obviously, if you're selling, they want to sell above the VWAP to get you better execution. And then it gives you some sort of measurement, not only to measure each bank buy, but also to give you some sort of measure of also outright and absolute performance. Because at the end of the day, you know, if the average price is, say, 18, I'm just making this up, and, you know, you're buying the market and they're filling you at 20, do you see, if you didn't have a VWAP and they just said, well, we filled you on average throughout the day at 20, how do you actually know? What does that mean? Someone's telling you 20. Oh, the market average price, VWAP, volume weighted average, was at 18. They got me a worse price. That's not good. Whereas if they got you at 16, you see, it gives you a benchmark where you can compare not only, obviously, different institutions if you've given orders to, but also gives you some sort of absolute benchmark as well to compare all these orders again. So, you know, that's why it's really important to look at it, again, amongst all the other reasons. And then finally, guys, if you really needed more convincing, go and have a look on the CME website. They use the volume weighted average price for settlements and so on and so forth, okay? So it really forms part of the microstructure of the market. This thing, I would go as far as saying that I don't know any successful traders that don't use the VWAP, okay? Or at least are acutely, acutely aware of where this thing is, okay? So yeah, if you're not using it, then, or you don't understand it, then that's not a bad thing. That's why you're doing this course. You're doing a professional course so you can learn about these things. So my point is, if you don't know about it, let's get you really understanding it from a real deep perspective rather than just a line on your chart, okay? So let's crack on and actually look at some of these bullet points in more detail. Okay, so on this slide, we'll just very quickly, just for the sake of completion, gonna talk about what exactly the VWAP is. But actually, the reality is I've covered this extensively in stage one, 1.4, measuring probability. So I'm not gonna cover the same thing twice. It's just pointless, obviously. However, rather than put it back in here, I would please request, go and watch 1.4. Whether you've got it the first time, didn't, it was probably two, three weeks ago now. You're just gonna get this section like a million times better than if you just try and get straight into it. Because I'm going to essentially assume that you've got everything in 1.4 and I'm gonna move on, basically, at that sort of pace. So yeah, really important you go and watch 1.4 because as I just fly through all of this, I'm basically using the same example that I used in 1.4. If you haven't got 1.4, you're not gonna get it now. So you need to go back to 1.4, essentially, and just re-watch it. And like I said, even if you've got it then, it's gonna refresh your memory as to exactly what the mean was and how we calculated it and so on and so forth for this example. And when I start talking about shifts in the mean, it's gonna make sense to you straight away. If you start to get into what I'm about to talk about here, which is essentially that fair value can shift markedly, and I'll come on to that in a second. If you haven't understood 1.4 well, or it's not freshening your memory, so basically everyone, this section's gonna be very difficult. So again, final time I'll say apologies. I sound like a broken record, but I'm trying to do it for your own benefit. I would suggest 100% of people watching this, go and watch 1.4 and then come back to this if you don't mind, then I can really ramp up the pace and make sure that your understanding is where it should be. So anyway, I'm gonna assume now you've paused it, you've come back, we're now here. And basically, I'm just gonna give a quick summary. So essentially VWAP is the volume weighted average price. I've called it the mean, but essentially it's the average price. So it's actually the true mean, okay? And I've said it here, any other measure of the mean, right? Average is junk, it's complete junk. I'm gonna show you, and I've showed you many times why that is, but I'm gonna show you again. And I'm not talking about the mode, we talked about the most common value. And see, this is why I want you to watch 1.4 if you haven't, because I've talked about all of this, different measures of description, how we use descriptive statistics to describe data. Anything that isn't the things that I've discussed in that section, and in particular when it comes to averages, when we hear about all these simple moving averages, exponential moving averages, guys, they're complete junk. Anything that doesn't take market orders into account, it's completely meaningless, okay? And I'm gonna show you, as I always do, and I've shown you this many times before, but let's just remind ourselves why that is. So for example, and I'm completely making this up, I don't remember the previous examples I've given you, but it's so easy to show you this, or to illustrate my point, honestly, it's so easy. Let's say that we're talking about pound, dollar, right? And I'm gonna show you this in financial markets, but also in the real world. And let's say throughout the month, obviously this is an extreme example, we've traded at, say, 120, 140, and 160. Now at 160, right, we've had, I don't know, again, just making this up, 10,000 transactions. At 140, and obviously to prove my point, I'm gonna go to an extreme, but this is exactly what you're doing when you're using moving averages, simple moving averages, trend lines, it's the same thing. Because you're giving every dot the same weight, okay? Any sort of indicator that doesn't take into account volume or market orders, pretty much useless in my opinion, pretty much. There might be the odd, very raw data points, like the high, low, open, they're not distorting the data, are they? The open is the open, the low is the low, the high is the high, the close is the close. Anytime you're using indicators to distort price, if you're not taking into account market transactions, you're in big trouble, you're not gonna succeed. So I've said here, 10,000 at 160, now imagine one transaction took place at 140, and one transaction took place at 120. Whenever you use any of these averages or whatever it is, guys, what you're doing is you're basically saying, oh, the average price of pound dollar, say on a simple basis, is 140. Can you see how incredibly ridiculous that is? No, clearly the average price was more like 160, okay? That is the volume weighted. We're basically taking into account, the number of occurrences at 160 was 10,000, virtually nothing, but do you see, when using moving averages like simple or indicators, you're typically given the same weight to this, to this. Do you see, even when you draw a trend line between here or whatever it is you're using, why are you given the same weight to somewhere where you don't even know whether there's been more than like one or two trends or however many, very few, relatively speaking, to other areas, okay? So obviously in this instance, it's gonna be, the volume weighted average price would be 10,000 times 1.6 plus one times 1.4 plus one times 1.2, okay? Now imagine that's the depth of market with your, sorry, one and one, that's the depth of market, okay, you get the picture, but let me just prefer to be neat here. Don't worry, the price is obviously normally on the other side, but this doesn't matter. Still, it's still the same point. So these are your market orders, doesn't matter if it's buy or sell or whatever, it's basically, would you agree this is your volume profile? You have 10,000 market orders at 160, one at 140, and one at 120. And I talked about this in one of the, I believe it was the probability section, where I said you can sit and calculate your VWAP if you really wanted to. Early on in the day is obviously a bit more practical because as the volume profile builds, you just do volume times price plus volume times price plus volume times price, and basically that gives you your volume weighted average price, okay? That's all it is. It's no different to what we did in 1.4 where we were measuring the heights. What was I doing? Instead of this, see, this is why I wanted you to go back to 1.4 because I'm not gonna cover this in any great detail here. We already talked about this. You've got six here, so you're doing six times 180 plus whatever that is, three times 181 plus two times 182, height, right? It's exactly the same as what you're doing here. There's no difference. When you're not weighting it by the occurrences, this is my point. Do you see how ridiculous it is? You're basically ignoring the fact that most people, their heights are 180. You're basically saying, nope, I'm assuming that all the data I collected, it was one, one, one, one, and even exponential complete, in my opinion, you know, in the day math speaks for itself, it's complete garbage. Because at the end of the day, you can say, oh, the most recent, I'm gonna give it the most sort of weighting. What does that mean? I mean, come on, it's ridiculous. End of the day, you've got, let's go back to the pound dollar example. You've got 140, 120, and let's say the market moved up, okay? So the price went from 120 to 140 to 160. This time, let's say 10,000 transactions took place here, and only one took place here and one took place here. Exponential would give that the most weight, that the least weight, less weight, and that the least amount of weight. It's just ridiculous. You're giving 10,000 transactions the least amount of weighting. I hope you can see why my point is that any other measure of an average on your chart, completely and utterly meaningless, okay? It's just complete junk. This is the only measure that every institution is looking at, because any statistician in the world is going to take into account frequency, okay? That's all volume is, it's just frequency, number of occurrences, okay? It's, and let me give you one more example, okay? Basically, you know, I talked about cricket, but it doesn't matter. Let's say you had a bunch of 100 scores in a sport, and it was zero, and then you scored 200, 99 times in a row. So you had 200, 200, 200, 200, but constantly 99 times in a row. What is that? It's just a frequency distribution, right, where you've got zero, and basically that would have a count of one, and then you've got 200, and that would have a count of 99, right? So you can put your 99 here, but I'm just gonna put it here for ease, 99, right? If someone says to you, oh, what was your average score over the 100 matches? It's like you saying, oh, I got zero, and I got 200. It's ridiculous, you didn't. You got 299 times, and you got zero once, okay? It's like having 99 market orders at 200, and one market order at zero, but you're saying, do you know what? I'm just gonna take the average of 200 and zero. Complete nonsense. I'm just saying it's halfway or exponential. It's a little bit more towards two. It's just completely ridiculous. Just take the data in front of you, right? And this is what I always say to people. If you're not looking at volume, you've got problems, right? And I said this before in the previous slide about institutions are looking at a volume-weighted average price. This is why, because it's the only measure of the average that makes any sense. Forget about financial markets. I just showed you. It's applicable at any sort of situation in the world. You're using it. You just don't realize it because you don't see it as a frequency distribution. You see all the numbers written down individually, like this. But don't forget, I've just rearranged those like that. Everything you look at, I even talked about, sorry, I know I'm going on and on, but it's true. Look, at the end of the day, I said, oh, if I had a sun or a dawn, they said they got, can't remember exactly what I said in the previous slide, but let's just say it was five A's, four B's, and one D. What is that? It's a distribution, guys. It's exactly the same thing. Fine, I don't have data on this side, but imagine I did. Just distribution. It's exactly the same. Can apply it to anything in life. The number of knives you have in your kitchen drawer and each different type can draw a distribution. And the probability of someone who probably had the same type of, you know, I'm stretching it a bit here, but it's true, right? The average kitchen, if you did a sample of people's knives and shapes, and I'm not too familiar, I'll be honest, I don't necessarily, I'm not the greatest cook, but you see my point. It can be applied to anything. If you did a survey of all the different types of knives and one was this length, this length, this length, you'd find generally there was a frequency around a particular length. But it's just a random, it just goes to show. I didn't even think of that example before I did this slide. In the top of my mind, right? It just goes to show how universally applicable this sort of average is. Now, not everything is obviously gonna follow a normal distribution because not everything has this sort of central tendency, but we talked about this before. So look, anyway, my point is, all of this, I've already said it all before, so obviously I don't wanna say it again, but you know how it is. I like to be complete. So I thought, let me just mention why it's so important and exactly what it is. It's essentially just the weighted average. So we can calculate it as I showed you on the depth of market, but obviously the computer just calculates it for us. So I talked about in 1.4, the weighted average of all the heights is obviously 179.4 centimeters. It's the same. When you've got your day, for example, the day VWAP is just basically every single price that the depth of market or the market has traded at weighted by the volume profile because that is the volume, right? So if you, for example, had this shape of volume profile on your dome, and then you've got all the prices streaming down here, all it's doing is just taking each price just in the same way as taking, we're taking 180 and obviously multiplying it by six because 180 is up here. Then look, six times one, two, three, four, five, six. It's the same thing. Here it might be like 11,000, but do you see, you don't want to sit there going 11,000 times this price plus 10,000 times that price, each individual price, and then divided obviously by the total number of market orders in the day. I mean, obviously that's a, for you to do that by hand, it's going to take you ages. Computer just does it for you, but essentially that's all it's doing. It's just taking the weighted average. So yeah, very, very simple. And that we already went through in 1.4. Now, this is where the VWAP really comes in because the problem is, if you think about it, this is just a mean at one point in time. Would you agree, right? As you were, so essentially, imagine you were collecting these heights of the 30-year-old males, I think it was, and imagine this didn't exist. Okay. In fact, let's just get rid of all of this. In fact, let me just, sorry, like I said, I don't necessarily prepare any of this stuff. I like to do it off the cuff so you can really get a true understanding of it. Okay, what I wanted to do is, I just want to cross them out individually because what it is is, imagine you're collecting this survey, right? So half of this data doesn't even exist. So let's say that isn't even, and I'm going to show you this on a proper volume profile. As you're collecting the data, imagine you were calculating the mean every time new data came into the market. These are just market orders. So initially you had 185 and you had 177, right? So what's the average of that? Well, it's just the average between the two, isn't it? So what is that, 181? Okay. Then you get new data coming in, 180. It's going to shift the mean down, isn't it? Then you get 170. You can do this, by the way, yourself, obviously. Just pull out your calculator and just start noticing how the mean shifts. Then you get 180 coming, that is going to go down. 176 comes in, it's going to drag it down further. 176 comes in again, it's going to drag it down. 180 comes in, it's going to drag it up. Just so you can have, the mean is going to be changing all the time. Guys, that is the VWAP, okay? The VWAP is a measure of how the market is changing at all periods of the day. See, and again, this is why it's so important you go back and watch 1.4, because I also talk about standard deviation. And I'm just going to assume you know what the standard deviation is. Obviously, I'm not going to cover that again. We covered it in great detail in that. But coming back to the mean, the problem is, right, okay, the mean will be building up over time. Problem in financial markets is, the mean can tend to shift, right? We've seen this. Intraday, obviously we see it. But even people, let's say you don't trade intraday. You see it all the time, don't you? Let's say pound dollar, for example. It shifts, doesn't it? It has these shifts over the years of like, it goes from like 150 to 160 to 170. And it can have these periods where it's, the mean price is almost shifting. And the thing is, right, the problem in financial markets is, in the real world with traded goods and services, this average price we see, this weighted average price, we can apply it to bread. We can apply it to milk. We can apply it to cheese. We can apply it to anything we want. And actually what happens over time is, the price will shift, but it's very slow. We talked about this sticky pricing, do you remember, in Auction Market Theory? If you think about the price of bread in Tesco, Sainsbury's, whatever, let's say it's about a pound. Do you agree? It won't necessarily change much for a few days or for a few months. The same thing as what I explained about pound dollar will have these shifts over years where it's noticeable to everyone because they go on holiday one year and then a couple years later, they all say, oh my God, the currency's changed. Problem in financial markets is, have you noticed, this is happening every day. Why is that? Because market orders, there's so many market orders coming through, and I talked about the price determination process, it's happening second by second. So the problem is, this mean, it's shifting throughout the day so frequently that to actually capture this, I said here, the profile doesn't capture this intraday period change well. Guys, you literally need a picture, a snapshot of every single profile, every single minute, new market orders are coming in to be able to compare them. Because think about it, in the same way that heights are coming in it's not such a problem because generally everyone who's 30 or whatever the age bracket was, there tends to be this fixed central tendency. So the mean will, even over long periods of time, it will typically tend to be around here. It won't necessarily move. Whereas in financial markets, as new data is coming in, markets do tend to shift quite radically. Yeah, because you get fundamental news, you get this coming in, you get that coming in. Until they really start to settle, that mean can, even throughout the day, change quite rapidly, is my point. The process that you may see happening in everyday goods and services happening over long periods of time, it's happening in an instant in financial markets. Again, we talked about this extensively. This is why I said what I said at the start of this section is, guys, that stuff was so much more important than getting the composite stuff because you really needed to understand that to get VWAP properly. So look, just to summarize, the final thing I really want to say is, you've seen this, you've been on the depth of market, right? The mean could be down here, for example, the weighted average mean at the start of the day. About an hour later, some transactions got built up here. You see that mean is going to shift, right? Closer to where the market orders are. Hour later, the profile's like that. And again, it's going to shift, isn't it? You see the market orders are more spread out. We've already gone from here to here to here within the space of, this can happen in 10, 20, 30 minutes, right? And again, this is what's constantly happening. Guys, you've seen this on the depth of market. Then you might see a lumpy bit appear here because market orders took place. It's going to shift the mean down. That's what I'm saying. These new numbers come in all the time. The mean is always changing. And so is the standard deviation. Obviously, because the data set is going to be spread out differently relative to the mean. Explained all of this again. I'm sorry to sound like a broke record, but this is why I want everyone to go back to 1.4, because you might get lost with the standard deviation stuff. But it's really important you understand that it's evolving as the profile's changing. Then suddenly we could have some big, do you see, now the mean may shift again. Guys, and obviously I'm not going to go through every iteration, but you can see it could be a while before we really get the, so then it could be here. I mean, it probably is a little bit higher than that, but it's not the point. The point is it's shifted, right? Then again, we get towards the end of the day, we get this, you see there to there, we've added volume, so again, it's going to shift. Guys, do you see throughout the day, on your chart for one day, imagine having to have all these different profiles just to see the shift in how value has changed over periods in time on the day. It's not practical, is it? So what does the VWAP do? It just joins up these dots, guys. Okay, that is the VWAP, and then obviously you've got standard deviation, which I'm just going to put into dots here. Bands, which again, we talked about extensively. It's just the spread of the data. Obviously, if the market's volatile, these bands are going to be much wider. If the market's obviously compressed, and we talked about this already, right? Do you remember I showed you two different types of data sets where they're well spread out? Obviously, the standard deviation is going to be wider, so you're going to see the bands widening. If the data set is close together, obviously, the standard deviation is what? Just a measure of spread. If this didn't exist, this didn't exist, this didn't exist, this didn't exist, and it was just a few points around here, see, the data's not spread out much. Obviously, the bands are going to come in. These are market orders, or heights of people, or number of bread sales, or whatever, at prices. Guys, it's universally applicable, okay? It's exactly the same thing. So I hope you can see VWAP just means if I want to see how VWAP changed throughout the day, am I really going to have, like literally, I could have up to what? Thousands of profiles on a day chart. It's just ridiculous, right? I'm not going to have that. So that's why the VWAP is really, really helpful, because it shows me how, in one line, how my volume profile has, and not even volume profile, just fair value, the average, the volume-weighted average price, fair value, how has it changed over the day? It's just showing me that. Has it been static? If it's been static, then obviously the profile has been building in a fairly even way throughout the day. Then we got more, then we got more, then we got more, right? Because the average is always going to be around here. Then it will just join up this dot, and I'm going to get quite a flat VWAP. Guys, go into any institutional trading floor and say to them, oh, we got a flat VWAP today. They're going to know. It's like talking English, right? It's the first language to these guys. To any institutional guys, they're going to be so impressed if you say to them, got a flat VWAP today. So I'm playing mean reversion. Why would you? Because every time market moves up, you're playing it back. Market moves down, you're playing it back. Market moves up, you're playing it back. I've shown you this in volume profile strategy, but actually you can use the VWAP as well to do this. It's just a different measure of value, which you can also see on the profile, but obviously it's pros and cons, right? With the profile, you can see every single transaction that's taken place. But then you give up something because you can only see every single transaction that's taken place at that given moment. With the VWAP, you can see the developing transactions, but you can't see every transaction because like I said, you can't have a thousand profiles side by side by side by side as they're changing. No, it's not practical. So you just have a line. So let's go and have a look at that. Okay, so what I've done here is I've just taken the e-mini S&P, it's really straightforward and basic, and I just looked at the profile early in the morning, okay? And do you remember, guys, it's no different to the height. Look, it's just the distribution, a frequency distribution of market orders instead of people's heights. And where was the average? Can you see the red dot there? You can see it there, that little red area there. So that was the average at this point in time. It was the average. Then I looked at it later on in the day. Look, new market orders came in up higher. So it shifted the mean, didn't it? The mean went from here to here. Then later on, very much later in the day, can you see we've built so much orders here, it even shifted it even more, which makes sense, right? So now you've got the mean and you can see it there. So at that point, that's what the profile looked like. At this point, that's what the profile looked like. And at this point, this is what the profile looks like. Can you see, imagine if you wanted to see how this evolved throughout the day. Guys, you'd need a profile for every single dot that you could imagine on here. Can you imagine? To see the evolution of the weighted average price. I mean, guys, you need like literally probably 30, 40 profiles lined up. You wouldn't even be able to see your computer screen, right? You'd have like 30, 40 profiles lined up. Do you see in one line, I can see throughout the day how this thing evolved. I can see straight away, absolutely see straight away that, oh, the profile must have built market orders higher. Now, obviously, as I said, you lose a bit of information because you can't see all the exact composition of it, but that's fine, you still got the spread of it, the standard deviations, okay? And this is what all these are. These are just the bands. So this is the one standard deviation. This is the one. This is the 0.5 and the 0.5 here. This is the 1.5 and this is the two. Guys, every institution in the world is using these standard deviations because they're standardized. Two standard deviations, okay? The most common ones are obviously one and two because that's generally what is used throughout the world in statistics is the first standard deviation and the second standard deviation. So it was compared to allow us to compare statistical trials, clinical trials, this trial, that trial, heights, blood pressure, whatever. People will generally look at, like I said, even fair value. We're looking at 70%. That's one standard deviation. And people like to look at the extreme as well, which is two standard deviations, which is, I think it's about 95%. So pretty much covers all angles. Now, what some institutions do like to do is look at it in more increments, like in terms of the spread being 0.5, 0.5, 1.5. And I'll tell you why that is. It's to do with rhythm, which I'm gonna come on to when we actually look at trading. But let's look at it statistically. Okay, so look, I know you might be thinking, hang on a minute, he's now going off into different standard deviation bands and all of this. Don't worry, guys, okay? It's not, I don't expect you to understand the deep sort of statistics behind it. Just very basically, I'm gonna try my best to explain it to you in the most logical manner again, if you're not getting it, obviously I'm happy to go through it again, but at the end of the day, it is really fairly logical. So what I mean by that is, so we already said two slides ago that, you know, there was a recap and then we had whatever the weighted average was for this data. I believe it was, just give me a second, let's have a look, 179, yeah, 179.4, right? Sorry about that, didn't write it down here. Now, as new data comes in, new market orders, we just saw that on the last slide, right, with the distribution, so let's go back to that. See this, new market orders, this is throughout the day, new market orders, and then I've split them out here, new market orders. What's the difference, guys? It doesn't matter what you're looking at. Could be grades, it could be scores in a match, it could be height. As new data comes in, the mean shifts, we already saw that, right, as the new, sorry, going back to this. Sorry, I'm jumping around, but I'm trying to do it for your own benefit. You see the mean shifted from here, we got all this new data, it shifted it up. Mean, new data came in, shifted it up. Guys, what it is is basically the reason why institutions like to look at these standard deviations in more granular bands because would you agree? Let's have a look at heights, right? If new data, if you've got a bunch of new heights coming in at 181, that's obviously gonna shift the mean, right, because we know the mean is, and I've gotten rid of it, unfortunately, but I believe it was, sorry about this, 179.4. Yeah, 179.4, so we know the mean is approximately here. The VWAP is here. If we get a whole bunch of new heights coming in at 181, it's gonna shift the mean a little bit. Now, imagine we get a whole bunch of data coming in, market orders or heights coming in at 186. Would you agree it's gonna move the mean much more, right? If you get data coming in at one extreme rather than here, you're gonna get the mean shifting much more. That's why people like to look at the first standard deviation because all different standard deviations, so let's just keep it simple for now, is they'll say, ah, market orders, i.e. price, got built in the first standard deviation, so we may be going imbalanced because the mean is gonna shift. Imagine we got orders coming in in the second standard deviation. Guys, that's a heavy imbalance. Can you see it shifting the mean this way? So what this allows institutions to do is say, oh, actually, no, it was just here. We're getting not much of an imbalance. We're just getting a small shift. Can you see why? Here you've got 0.5, 0.5. Can you see, if I get market orders, transactions, don't get confused, it's just price, as in orders coming through, orders at price, then my mean's not gonna shift that much, right? My weighted average price, my VWAP, it's not gonna shift much. If I get it in the first standard deviation, it's gonna shift that much more. Now imagine I get it in the 1.5. Guys, this could be becoming a heavy imbalance period, okay? And I'm gonna talk a little bit about this, but obviously it gives you a way of saying the rhythm, the shift in imbalance is faster. When we are creating market orders or generating market orders between 1.5 and two, obviously the mean's gonna shift more, isn't it? Computationally, just when you do it in your calculator, at the end of the day, if you start adding 186, 186, 186, obviously then the mean's gonna move more than if you started adding 181, 181. Guys, you're no different in a price, okay? So that's all why people are looking at the bands, because they wanna see where are market orders taking place. Are they taking place in this zone? Are they taking place in this zone? Look, the one standard deviation, the half standard deviation. Let's go and have a look at this. Okay, so just following on literally from what we were doing, if you look at the distribution curve, and I said, you know, there's the half standard deviation, one standard deviation, 1.5, and the two, what you do is you just flip it. That's all they're doing. When they're looking at this standard deviation band, you know, and you may have seen this on your MT4 with some bands or whatever. At the end of the day, even though the underlying assumption or reference point that MT4 is using is garbage, because it's a moving average or whatever, the actual standard deviations, the theory behind them is identical in the sense that you've got the one standard deviation, right? So guys, this is what I meant. There's really no literature. I've seen nothing on the internet that explains this properly. What's actually happening is that one standard deviation band, the reason why it's useful is because you can start to see are market orders coming in, are they coming in in this area? Because my mean is gonna shift slower. You know, if I've got orders coming in in this area, this area here, to me, my mean's gonna shift faster if my market orders are at higher prices, right? That's why we look at this, because can you see if throughout the day, right, I showed you this, the evolution of profile, on the previous slide, this, you can see these orders were building and the profile, this mean started shifting. How did that actually happen throughout the day? That's what you've got to understand. It's my profile is evolving and how is it evolving? At what pace is the imbalance that causing, or it could be no imbalance is causing it to shift? And probably the easiest way for me to explain, if I just bring the price on, there you go, can you see the price? So essentially, can you see in this instance, new market orders, right, at this point in the day, they were coming in at, above this area. So guys, don't overcomplicate it. It's just new data, heights of 30 year olds were coming in, in this region of my frequency distribution, they were coming in, in this region. Okay, so what a lot of traders, institutional traders will do is, they'll be taking positions because the market's imbalanced and they'll be saying, why is it imbalanced? Because the mean is shifting and you can see it here, can you see the mean shifting? And you saw that the market orders are developing much higher. You know, as this is coming through, you can see it's a fairly, and then actually the rhythm, so we're gonna talk about this, you know, the rhythm, how the rhythm in the market can change. Obviously here, the rhythm, it went from, you know, fairly slow rhythm, then can you see how it actually started developing much faster between there and there? Because we were initially, what, in new orders were coming in this region, then we went to the first standard deviation and then we dropped off a bit, didn't we? Look, the pace changed. We came back to the 0.5. And what does that do? It's gonna cause the mean to slow down in terms of changing, and look, you can see it, the slope of the mean slowed down. Here it was fairly, gradient was fairly, you know, steep, then the mean changed. And then what happened is we got a complete change in rhythm. Do you see? First, the rhythm was there, and then market orders started really tailing off in terms of where they were in the distribution here. Now, the thing is, I know you might think, hang on, this is really complicated, but it isn't. Once you've done it a few times, it won't. And I talked about this before. Honestly, you need to somehow develop an understanding of this, because again, like I said, the way I've seen it taught, even the way it was taught to me, it just was too indicator-like. It was like, oh yeah, look, the VWAP, the average were bouncing off it, and I said, it's completely garbage. I'll be honest with you, you know, if you really, really wanna really, like, do well in this, and you can, understand it. My point is, right, you understand what I'm saying, so I'm not doing this to make your life really difficult. I want you to really, like, be elite, and really to do that, you know, I'm sure you can understand, you need to really get a grasp of why things are moving, not just, okay, Envy said that this is the VWAP, and when the price bounces off it a couple of times, the rhythm has slowed down, because previously it was up here, and it was bouncing off this line, and now it's bouncing off that line. That's a pretty good understanding of rhythm shifts, but I want you to understand why. Why is that? It's because market orders are now taking place very close to the mean, right? Look, I already said this is the 0.5 standard deviation. It's taking place here. We said that already in the example before, right? If you've got 180 as the average height of people, and you get all these data coming in at like, say, 179, 181, very close to the mean, the market shift, that shift in the mean is gonna be very slow, isn't it? And you can see that the pace really slows down, but you're still imbalanced, as in you're shifting, so it's important to recognize that you're imbalanced, but it's the pace of imbalance, okay? Now, there will be circumstances, obviously, where you're gyrating around the VWAP. Here, can you see all our market orders are taking place? Don't even think of it as the VWAP. Just think of it as the average price, volume-weighted average, which is what it is, the volume-weighted average price for the day, and all market orders have taken place above. What's that gonna do? Obviously, it's gonna shift the mean. When the mean is shifting, you're going imbalanced, right? Obviously, because your mean is shifting. If all market orders are taking place around the same area, you've seen the volume profile. How is it? It's like that. Your mean, it's gonna be flat, so can you see why the shape of VWAP, its direction, where are market orders taking place relative to the VWAP? Guys, this stuff is so crucial. Do you know what? I realized that I could talk about this so much, and the danger is that I lose a lot of people because, obviously, I understand how distributions develop very, very well, and it's so clear in my mind. And I actually think, hopefully, most of you understand this because I have tried to make it as simple as possible by comparing it to the heights, and obviously, if new heights are coming in, not at the mean, but slightly away from the mean, but at different areas of this, obviously, they're gonna have different impacts on how quickly your mean shifts and, therefore, how imbalanced the price goes. It's literally, instead of heights, it's just market orders, and we just wanna see in which area, this area, this area, just like we see in the distribution, are we getting the market orders? So, just one final time. Obviously, if market orders are developing in this area, we're gonna see this imbalance, really strong imbalance, because it's gonna shift the mean. It's gonna cause the profile, essentially, to go, do you see why I say this is an amazing thing? Because it shows you how likely the profile's developed. So, for example, if early in the day, you know, you had just a sort of basic profile, it's a terrible drawing, let's start again. If you had some sort of, let's say it was like that, a basic profile, obviously, if market transactions are taking place, say, above the 1.5 standard deviation, so can you see all the way out here? That's miles away from the mean. Guys, this thing is clearly shifting quite rapidly upwards, do you see? That's what I'm saying, it gives you a really good feel for how the shape of your profile is changing throughout the day, and therefore, you can also use it for trading opportunities. And, you know, again, I said, you know, I could go on and on about this theoretically. Let's actually get on the charts and see how this thing plays out. So when we're actually taking trades, and I'm gonna show you, we're gonna actually, I'm gonna show you VWAP and how you would use it to take trades within your composite levels. I can actually show you how you can measure rhythm and essentially look at different types of imbalances and use that to your advantage. So let's go on to the charts anyway. What I wanna do is I just wanna show you one thing. I wanna show you the evolution of profile because I just wanna make sure everyone gets it. On my Sierra chart, I'm using market replay, you know, several, maybe 100, two, three, 400 times speed. And I'm gonna show you exactly what I showed you before. I'm gonna show you profiles develop and we're just gonna bang home this point and then we're gonna move on from VWAP theory. I'm gonna start seeing it in practice, okay? I just wanna make sure you, obviously, I wanted to go over this because I can refer to this when we're on the chart. So if you've done 1.4, you've done this, and you're still a little bit unsure, don't worry. I'm gonna really try and hammer this home when we get on the charts. All right, guys, let's get onto Sierra, do the market replay quickly, and then we're gonna end this section. Okay, so I thought it'd be quite handy for us to look at this on a chart just to bring it to life. A lot of the theoretical stuff I was talking about, so that's the VWAP, essentially, and you can see the danger, right? The way it's taught, even in institutions, they just assume. You kinda know all the stuff I was talking about and I've seen it time and time again. People just fall into this trap of looking at this as some sort of line you can play bounces off and they don't understand it, what it's actually trying to tell them, and that's really important. That's why I'm trying to spend a bit of extra time, even though I know it's really tough in sections because you're trying to think of profile changing minute by minute, and look, end of the day, yeah, it can be. I understand. I've obviously seen the profile change millions of times, so for me, it's like, fine. The reason I'm saying that is not to say I'm better than you. In fact, no, the opposite. I'm saying to you that, look, don't worry too much. It will come in time. It's just experience as you see the profile developing, as you see VWAP developing. The reason I'm laying the seat over the next few months, and I say this all the time, the hard work starts when this course finishes, when you're observing VWAP, I want you to think about the things I told you about. Oh, why is VWAP forming? What is actually forming it? Not it's a red line on my chart and it's basically somewhere where I just need to do things when the market touches it. No, because that means you're not understanding formation, why it's forming, why the bands are the way they are. It's all to do with obviously the statistics section that we talked about, just market orders developing in a distribution over time and obviously the average shifts, right? So what I want to do is to show you that in that rather than just people's heights, it's just market orders. I thought it'd be really good if I just put you on them, I'll show you the market profile, sorry, market replay function. And I'll show this to you later, obviously for the simulation stuff and whatever. But essentially, you could probably try this for yourself. I've got no issue with it. I've actually taken, I believe in the template, I may have taken volume profile off as in it's hidden. So what you need to do is you just need to unhide it, okay? What it is, because when we go onto composites, we'll have volume profile eventually, but I'm gonna show it hidden because it's too confusing otherwise to show profile, VWAP, composites. It's gonna be too much for you at first, but for the purpose of this exercise, you can bring it on. So just obviously unhide this volume profile, okay? So volume by price is what it calls it, but it's volume profile essentially. And you go to chart and you go to replay chart, okay? Now this, even though I've got a live account here, as you can see, it's actually only works, obviously only works in sim mode. So it's gonna, hopefully you don't have a live account, but it is gonna take it off. But yeah, so first, what it is is, I just do single chart because obviously it uses a lot of processing power. If you've got loads of charts and you ask it to replay all of them, we don't wanna do that at the moment. I'll just stick to standard replay. You don't need to do any of this tick stuff and all of that. That's more like if you're testing algorithms and et cetera, et cetera. It's absolutely fine, standard replay. You start date and time. Let's do this day, you know, just after the open. Let's do like nine o'clock's perfectly fine, yesterday. Obviously when you watch this, it could be year, five years, whatever, whatever your date is, just do the day before, yeah? Do like maybe eight o'clock in the evening. Sorry, 2000, because it's by time. You can do number of trades to next bar. I've got the speed as 480. So that's obviously normal speed. And we'll speak briefly about this obviously later on when you're ready to do market replay stuff, but essentially you might as well start to get used to this functionality now. So let's just do one for now, press play. And as I said, I have to enable trade simulation mode. You probably, if you're in sim, which you should be, it would just get you started. But obviously, because I'm in a live, I've got a live account here. It's gonna clear all that, yeah, that's fine. Okay, so it's essentially, and I know my face covers a lot of this, but just ignore that for now. This is that day. So let me just move this down, a bit further down. It's about there. So it's actually playing now. Let's just speed this up a little bit. Okay, so you can see, there is a distribution there, but you won't be able to see it now. Let's just see it for. So my point is, this is just new market orders coming through and you can't see the VWAP right now, but it is shifting. Let's just have a look. Can you see that? You can see the little market orders developing there, here. I'm just gonna speed it up a bit more. You can pause this and play it back a little bit, but like I said, the point is, you can also do this yourself. Did you see what the point, my point was that, look, the VWAP was here first, when we had these market orders here. Look what happened, the new market orders came in where? Above the 0.5 standard deviation. Initially, they came in much higher, initially, they came in much higher, and look what happened, caused the mean to shift up. That's all why, because the market orders were coming in where? Above the mean. So obviously, it was causing the mean to shift up, but the point is, how quickly were we getting imbalanced? Were we getting fairly imbalanced? Obviously, that's the 0.5. Were we getting pretty solidly imbalanced? Or were we getting a fast imbalance at 1.5? Well, at this stage, it's still fairly stable, isn't it? Let's just see how it develops. My point is, do you see, even without looking at any of this, we can just see from the VWAP as it develops how this profile develops. So that's what I was trying to say in the theoretical section of why I said that it would probably be quite handy for us to look at this because it will be a lot clearer. I'm just gonna slow this down a little bit. Can you see the market orders coming in? Look what's happening. Guys, look what's happening to the mean. Every time market orders come in above, the mean shifts, and then look, it shifted down. Guys, can you see how incredibly powerful this is? Why? Because what's happened? What's happened? Even if I couldn't see this profile and I could only see the mean of the profile, what have we done? We've just gone up and down above the mean, right? So we've had transactions above, which have caused us to go and balance up, and then transactions below, which has caused us to go down. Have we gone anywhere? We haven't gone anywhere. When we go nowhere, we get balanced profiles, don't we? Look, it's a very balanced profile. Very different, very, very different to what you see here, which is where we spend the bulk of time above the mean, and therefore, the profile isn't balanced, is it? It's more of a different shape where it's flat here, and then we get a lot of heavy volume building above. So I don't like to use the word trend day, but essentially, it's a trend day, it's an imbalanced day. Typically, look at the pace of it, is my point. The pace was, we could say, 0.5, essentially, was the pace. And then at stages, we had a pace where we kind of went above and below. So do you see, the rhythm was more closely matched to 0.5. My point is, if market orders were taking place all up here, this mean would have really motored, and this would have been much bigger. What I'm saying is you've got to, my point is, and I know this is a lot to take in right now, and I understand, I've seen this a million times, so for me, it's just like, I know it like the back of my hand. And don't worry if you're still thinking, oh, this is a bit much, I'm not understanding. It's fine, I don't expect you to get this the way that I'm describing it immediately. The reason I'm telling you all this stuff is because you're about to go on a VWAP journey now. I want you to start developing your understanding like this. I don't want you to think, oh, Envy said the rhythm is bouncing off this line, or gyrating around here so we're balanced, no, I want you to understand it deeper than that, I want you to understand, oh, if we have the market orders transacting in the, you know, above the first standard deviation, then my mean is gonna really shift up more than if we had transactions in this area. Then you see, this would be much flatter, and your profile would be more like this. Obviously, you wouldn't have these market orders because there wouldn't be any transactions up here, they'd be all down here. So you can start to get a feel for profile shape and what the market is trying to achieve or attempting to do. This is why I say, I saw it so many times even with institutional guys, they just didn't get this. Maybe because it wasn't explained to them, or whatever, they fell into the trap of just trying to see this as some sort of indicator. They weren't quite getting, hang on, you know, I'm getting valuable information here that maybe I should be paying attention to. So again, for example, this is dry rating around here. We haven't really got any balance when you start to look at how the day is developing. And this is the power of VWAP. You see, every time this VWAP changes, I can only get this information off of volume profile if I had every single different shape of volume profile. Did you notice? And go rewind it. Early on, it was this shape. Then it started building, obviously, transactions up here, and it was this shape. Then we added this bit on as this bit. Do you see it's all developing throughout the day. It's changing. That's why I wanted to do this example so you could watch it change. Let's continue then. Watch it change. Watch that profile change and this VWAP change. If you didn't have this VWAP, how would you know how this profile has developed? Do you see, right now, I've only got a static shape of profile. I don't know how this thing changed throughout the day, but using this and the bands, and obviously watching how prices developed with market orders, I can almost have a very good feel for how the market has achieved this balance or imbalance. How is it achieving imbalance here? Is it achieving it in a aggressive manner? Is it achieving it in a not so aggressive manner? Is it achieving it in a very dull manner? Still achieving it. And I've often heard guys call this slow trend, this, and these more faster trends. I've heard it being said before because it's imbalance is being achieved market orders at higher standard deviations, further away from the mean on your probability distribution. So again, apologize, I was gonna play that. Just wanna make sure you know what you're looking for. Do you see it? Look at this profile, it's changing shape. Okay, then we finish the day off. So let's carry on to the next day. Okay, so I really want you to watch for the same thing. Apologies, I think some of the profile might cover my face, but that's fine. I hope you don't mind, I'm just gonna move this up a little bit so we can have this in the center. Just watch the profile form, guys. You can see it there, it's forming. Look where the mean is right now. The mean is there. So can you see, for me to know, I'd have to have this shape of profile photocopied and down somewhere. Can you see that? Or on the page. How am I gonna know where the feedback was earlier in the day? I can't, I need it drawn for me, right? Can you see here, it's developing? Look, watch the VWAP change. Oh, look, market orders came in aggressively above the one standard deviation, and look how quickly and rapidly we saw the profile building. Can you see that? Guys, that's an aggressive imbalance. Okay, so you can have trading opportunities to get long. Aggressive imbalance. That's the rhythm of the market right now. We'll talk about rhythm. See, the rhythm changed. We went from an aggressive imbalance to a slower imbalance. It's an imbalance nevertheless. But my point is, if we didn't have these VWAP lines, how would I know that the market's getting aggressive or it's not getting aggressive, and so on and so forth? How would I know how my profile shape has changed throughout the day? How would I know where the average was earlier in the day? Let me show you what I mean by this. So here I can see the mean started off here and went up, right? I can see it. The mean started here, went up. Yeah, we built aggressively up, et cetera, et cetera. And I can probably tell that my profile obviously was a certain shape down here. And then obviously we didn't develop much volume here. And then I can see straight away that the volume that happened here happened in an aggressive manner and that the average shifted in an aggressive manner in the morning. And then the gradient changed. How can I tell that by just looking at a profile at one point in time? I can't, right? So for example, if I take my VWAP and hide it, do you see how much information you're losing? I have no idea how this thing evolved over time, how the mean, the average, and we've already discussed many times how the average is so important. I don't know how it evolved over time. As soon as I put that on, I can see. So let's just finish this example. Can you see, sorry, I know I keep pausing, but it's really important how this day going around the mean, right? It's a balanced day. It's very different to this day. Look at this day. When did we ever trade below the mean? We didn't. Why is that important? This is where the stats, basic stats really helps because when you've got a profile that starts off like that, right, and here we can see all the frequency is constantly here, constantly here, constantly here, constantly here, what's gonna happen? It's gonna cause it to shift, right? Can you see that? It's gonna cause it to go imbalanced in an aggressive manner and it's gonna cause this profile shape to change from that to essentially, you still have that, but then you get that. Can you see that's what's happening? It's exactly the same. You probably had a nice little profile in the morning and then can you see all these market orders were coming in and it was causing us to shift up into this area. So it's a very imbalanced day and because we've got a reference point, the mean, we can see all market orders took place above the mean. We know it's an imbalanced day. It gives us great rhythm that we can start to take trading opportunities off. Here we can see it's shifted, rhythm's shifting. Do we need to change trading strategy? Yes or no? So look, I think I've pretty much exhausted the point here. You can see how the days, it helps you to sort of develop different sort of strategies because it's developing throughout the day. I can change. Here, as you saw, initially the market condition was very balanced and we changed and we went slightly imbalanced, aggressive towards the end of the day. You can see shifts and this is, you know what? I just wanted you to see more of the theory behind it. We're gonna keep doing this now in terms of looking at it versus the composites and then I think hopefully it should really ram home how this can help us from a trading perspective. So anyway, I hope that was useful. That's the VWAP and how it develops throughout the day and really shows us how the market condition is shifting throughout the day and we're gonna talk a lot more about that now. Let's get looking at VWAP with the composites and then we can start to talk about rhythm, acceptance and starting to build some trading ideas. All right, looking forward to that.