Okay, ladies and gentlemen, I said I wanted to do this entry and exit section, and actually, initially I planned to do this as part of the task section before we got onto the charts, but it's so important that I actually wanted this to be a separate section on its own. Look, I'm going to be honest with you, there is no, if anyone ever tells you this is the way you should enter the market and this is where your stop-loss should be, honestly, they're having you on, guys, you just, I cannot tell you how this, you know, I keep saying it, that there's sort of changes I made in my trading that really elevated me to different levels and dropping this notion that the perfect entry and exit that exists universally is there. Once I dropped it, it was like, wow, I actually started to understand the market a lot better because focus is not on this, on this 5%, okay? You've got to step out of this, no offense to anyone, but you're paying me for professional institutional advice. I can either lie to you and just say, yep, everything is, you know, heaven, utopia, land of unicorns, and we all use a perfect stop-loss, I would be doing you a massive disservice and hindering your growth if I didn't tell you the truth. Because by telling you the truth, it's going to allow you to grow as an order flow trader, as someone who reads the market properly. So what am I actually doing? Well, you know, at the end of the day, like I said, I'm interested in the 95%. If I know solid context, 95% of it is done, or sorry, 90% is done, it's in the bag, it's solid. Guys, I really, I'm going to be honest with you, I couldn't care less whether I enter here, my first position, whether I enter here. You know, this is a human being trait, we're always looking for value, isn't everyone looking for a pullback? Oh, I'm only going to enter on the pullback, complete garbage, guys. If the market's here, and I've got up a little bit late, or I've come in late, or whatever, and I've done my 90% hypo, and I'm confident this is going to rally, guys, I'll just start there. I don't care, it's my first position, it's my tester of the day. Then I will watch the market. If we then pull back, and I'm looking at the order flow, right, and I think the order flow isn't aggressive, basically, it's nothing. There's no market orders coming in, the market's just drifting down, maybe because supply has pulled off the gas. I don't necessarily look at supply, I'm looking at market orders. If market orders are pretty flat, but the market's moving down, clearly it's not aggressive. Guys, I'm going to add there, we're at this swing low, you're probably stopping out, right? This is the theme. It's not that institutional traders like me are preying on retailers at these lows, or I couldn't care less, it's just that I'm using that liquidity to get into the market. Because when you're selling, who are you selling to? Me. I'm buying here. I'm watching the order flow. Then did you see in that crude oil example I showed you, guys, I was adding at higher prices. This happens frequently. Why is that? Because what's just happened here? What's the narrative? We've come up, sellers have pushed, failed. We've pushed up even higher. Now sellers have pushed even harder, failed twice. Can you see the narrative is suddenly the sellers have lost this battle. We've shot up. I see huge aggression coming in from market orders. Guys, I don't care. I've already got my cost basis pretty good, because I entered in around here. Maybe I've got a really cheap entry around here, so my average is somewhere around here. Fine, I don't mind. I'm managing my cost basis, but balancing that out with probability in my mind. Because if in my mind I'm thinking, all right, here, probability might be quite low relative to what it could be in the sense that, yeah, I've got my context in, but I haven't actually seen what sellers or buyers are doing at this moment in time. It's still early days. Let me just put a little tester on. I see sellers come in. Maybe they failed, maybe even seen some absorption here or whatever, so I might add some here. I might stop out. You saw in the oil one trade, I just put a little one contract in here and I just stopped out because I didn't like something that I saw in the order flow or whatever. I just didn't like it, what I was seeing. Then we started to go up and I realized, oh, maybe I made a mistake, so I got back in. This time I saw nice aggression coming in from the buyers. I actually added some more. We came back in. It's pretty weak. I got in another cheap entry there, but here, obviously, ideally, I want my average cost basis to be as low as possible. Here I might add in two, three contracts versus here I'm adding in one. Guys, it's very complicated. There's so many moving parts. It's like not only am I watching the narrative, I'm also deciding, should I go in aggressively here? Should I add one here? How's that going to have an impact on my average cost? Oh, here I don't mind adding in a contract or two because the probability is higher, so I'm adding in a higher price, but my expectation is better, whereas here my expectation might not be so high because it's ... You call it kind of information risk. Obviously, here I've got some information risk because I don't have information that the buyers are going to get aggressive. Here it's more price risk. I'm paying for information. I've got information, but I've got price risk because I've got in a higher price. I'm constantly trying in my mind to balance these two things out. Here I might not be willing, for example, to enter at higher prices because I haven't seen this narrative play out and haven't seen sellers fail two times. If I've seen sellers fail two times, I'm willing to enter here. Guys, how do I write this down in a book? Can you see why every trading book you read out there is completely a bunch of garbage? I can't describe this in a book. This is why telling the truth is bad marketing and why no one tells the truth because people aren't going to buy the truth. This is the truth. You paid me for the truth, how pros do it. I'm telling you this, how you do it. You're not going to be able to do it like this. It's all over the place, right? You need to start somewhere, and that's the point. You can build up to this over two, three years of watching this every day. You need something in the interim, and I'm going to obviously show you some ideas, but it's not going to be one. You need to make it your own, but I'm going to show you some ideas that are very viable and can help you get into the market and start developing your understanding and get you closer to that sort of level, and potentially could give you some decent edge anyway. What it is is the best way to think about it, let's now actually ... So I described my process down. It was important because what it is is I don't want people to think, oh, Envy's doing something in secret. What's he doing? Why isn't he showing us what he's doing? There you go. Okay, I've shown you what I do. It's feel, it's taken me a long period of time to develop. He's kind of like a CEO, and I'm not saying I'm CEO, but the CEO of Tesco, do you think he's doing a job with a handbook? Come on guys, you're making decisions based on years of experience, right? Why do you think CEOs get fired and replaced all the time? Because there isn't a golden handbook, and this is why it sort of boggles my mind that people think that there's some perfect stop loss and entry. Guys, you're being played by marketers. If you believe that for one minute ... And forgive me if this isn't you, but if anyone out there, and I'm going to be incredibly blunt, and I mean this in a way that I'm trying to help you, if you think that there is a perfect entry and a perfect place to put your stop loss, I don't mean this in a rude way, but you should probably try and continue finding that until you come to that realization yourself that it doesn't exist. It just isn't there, and I'll tell you why, and it brings me on to my next point, because what's the market doing? For example, let's say we're in this imbalanced upstate, and don't worry, I'm going to give you some ideas about how to enter the market and how to develop them into your own, and that's why the hacking actually does help, is let's say we are ... This is the band, say the first standard deviation band, we're in a sort of normal rhythm, and I tell you the amount of times that the market is ... Let's say you enter there, right? So many people are going to put their stops there. You enter somehow on the turn, some trendline break, or whatever guys are doing, it doesn't matter. The market will do this, take out your stop, and then say, thank you very much, and then up we go, and then your target gets hit. How many times has that happened? Then you might say, oh, do you know what, Envy, that's all right, I'm going to use a method where I just put this 10 pips below here. Guys, do you know what's going to happen? The next few times, or whatever, there's going to be plenty of occurrences where the market just takes that out and then does. Okay, or you might say, actually, fine, do you know what then, I'm just going to put my stop here, and the market's going to come down, take two stops out, and go, guys, it's going to drive you mental, okay? And there's so many variations, you know this, you cannot predict to any certainty what this thing is going to do. That's why I'm quite loose myself, because I tried all of that stuff, honestly. It got to the stage where I just dropped it and said, do you know what, I'm going to focus on getting my hypothesis so good that it allows me a bit of freedom with my entry. I'm not going to worry too much about where I enter and stuff. Of course, I use the order flow, I said, and I do do it very dynamically. I talked about this in the last section, I use a core satellite approach. It's similar to what fund managers are doing, where I will play with my cost basis. I'll get in, I might take some off, I might scale some in, scale some out, whatever. Keep continuing playing with my cost basis, but I'm not sitting here thinking about my stop loss. I'm thinking more about my sort of entry relative to probability, and again, that comes with time. Until then, you need something, right? But it's not going to be perfect because of these reasons. You're always going to have a method that sometimes works in some conditions and sometimes doesn't work in others. Yeah, the market's going to ... Even you enter here and you're going to start going up and then it's going to do that and then it might do that and then it might take the second one out and then it might go. Do you see what I mean? And then it even takes that one out. You know, at the end of the day, you've got two options to deal with this, right? You've got to take a trade-off, basically, and I've heard it called information risk versus price risk. Information risk is basically, you've got to decide what you prefer, okay? So let me explain this to you. The further up here you get in, or here, for example, or whatever, you're taking on price risk. Why is that? Because you're paying a worse price. What's the exchange for that? You're getting information. Confirmation, they call it. The alternative is you get in really early, but you have information risk. Why is that? You've got no price risk. Not no price risk, but very low price risk because you've got in at a good price and maybe your stop's here, it's very tight, but you're lacking this piece of information. So you've really got to figure out, A, do I want to pay that price but get, obviously, the information and, therefore, I'm going to enter once the market turns. So I'm going to explain that to you in a second, or do I want to enter earlier and forego some of that information but get price, less price risk. The other thing is, so that's entry, okay? The other thing is stop loss. So I told you, my stop loss is miles away. I'm going to do it manually. It's way too advanced for you right now. You need to have somewhere to put your stop, okay? So to get you started, I'm going to give you two options. Either you can put it at the swing low and, obviously, take the risk, sorry, I didn't mean to delete all of that, and, you know, so let's look at this again. So let's say you enter somewhere around there, let's say you enter there, I'm going to show you this. You can put your stop here, right? A lot of times it is going to stop you out, but as soon as it turns again, see, you need to be ready to enter again. And this is why everyone's different. Some people like to sit here, watch it, if it turns, was there some absorption here? What happened in the order flow? Yep, I'll get back in. Honestly, for me, I moved away from the depth of market and I kind of like the more relaxed approach. So that's why, rather than stare at it, I'll give it a bit of room, I'll wait for things to happen. But if you put your stop too tight, then, unfortunately, you're going to get stopped out a lot. You know, if you have like eight ticks, 10 ticks, that type of thing, very low stops, you're going to have, it's not a bad thing to do, but you just got to be prepared to re-enter straight away. You can move this down to the next swing low, okay? So what I mean is, look, you can either, let's think about, let me think here if I can find a good example. Probably the only example I can see is, hypothetically speaking, right, here. Let's say you enter the market. So the first thing is you can enter, this is where Heiken Ashi is quite good, right? I'm giving you various options that I think are quite good. If you don't want to use Heiken Ashi, you can just say, right, when I see buyers step in, I don't really advocate the use of trend lines, right, to me, they're complete garbage, as you know, but I don't mind microstructure. If you just see it break like that and you don't want to use these, you can get in as the buyers come in and you see some sort of orders coming, market orders come in, little micro break, and the caveat to this is, don't scream at me and say, Envy, you told us trend lines are rubbish. They are, and I don't use them. I'm just trying to help you get started, give you some ideas about how you can enter the market. You can enter it there, but the reason I like the Heiken Ashi is because it will change color. Okay, the averaging process, it dampens the volatility of this little swing here. Let's say you wanted to enter, as soon as it turns blue, right, you can enter. So that's what I mean by entering early in terms of, you know, you're taking information risk, but if you enter a little bit later, you can wait for the candle to close, but look, it closed there. So I'm giving you two options. You decide. Either wait for the Heiken Ashi to close, change color and close to get in, or as soon as it changes color, starts changing color, just get in straight away, but obviously you take the risk that it doesn't end up closing blue or whatever color you set here. Okay, so that's one option. Okay. So in fact, that's multiple options on entry. All right, so we're clear in terms of entry. You can either use this, wait for a little microstructure break, and then you can get in. If you want to here, you could wait for a microstructure break. I wouldn't necessarily just blindly enter as it kind of pulls back to even some level. I would wait for the buyers. What it is, is it's an alternative as you're getting used to. I hope you understand. I don't want you to use this long term. It's until you get used to reading order flow. So you'll see market orders coming in on your cumulative delta, and that should be a line, but my point is just imagine there's a market order that's getting strong. Obviously, the market's going to move up. I wouldn't suggest just buy blindly as it falls back. That's very advanced. Personally, obviously, my hypotheses are very strong. So for me, I don't mind where the market is. I do do it, but look, do as I say, not as I do. As I said, I've got a lot of confidence in what I'm doing, so I'll just hit the market, whatever, and like I said, I'm working my average anyway. I'm going to improve my cost basis as the market pulls back. That's too advanced for you right now. Just look for areas where you can just start to get in the market and develop that type of stuff later on. So, yeah, this is one. This is why I say just wait for a little sort of microstructure break. And at the same time, just watch cumulative delta, which we'll bring on later. But it'll get you just in the market. That's what it does. It just forces you to hit buy, get in the market, and start watching the order flow. That's why I want you to do this. And it'll also just keep you motivated. It'll keep you in the market. It'll give you a way of getting started. Because for you to go from here to where I am, how are you going to do that? Just like that. You're not. You're going to have to take steps. So I hope you appreciate that this stuff makes me cringe, right, even drawing trend lines and stuff. I'm doing it because I want to be fair. I don't want to just desert you guys and say, no, you've got great context. You're getting the best stuff in the market, which, let's be honest, you are in terms of developing context. But I want to help you all the way. I really appreciate, as I've said before in one of the videos, the amount of people that have said, yeah, do you know what, Envy? We do want to look at institutional stuff. And we want you to teach us. And I feel a sense of responsibility to at least help you close that bridge. And this is a great way to get you started rather than just saying figure it out for yourself. I hope you can see I'm really trying my best to give you stuff that I don't necessarily feel comfortable with. But I think it's a really good way of closing the gap so you can at least get started and start to develop. What I'm showing you here, 10 times better than what's out there anyway. Even though I don't necessarily believe in this mechanical type of entry style. I don't think it's going to obviously get you to, you know, those heights, dizzy heights that you want to get to. Let's be honest, if it was that easy or there was one particular method, you know, I've said it a million times. An algorithm will just wipe that edge out in two seconds. We've seen the competition in this market. So that's why I can't give you one particular thing. I can give you a range of stuff that I think will work pretty well as you develop your understanding of order flow over the next few months and even years. So, look, I went maybe off on one a little bit there. Apologies. But, you know, it's important. I said why I'm doing this is because it really enables us to make sure that some aggressive buyers have come in. And like I said, the alternative is either here you can wait for the market to, you know, turn blue and then you can enter. Or if you're here, you can obviously wait, either do it straight as the candle starts to turn blue or wait for the candle to close. So, you know, it's going to stay blue and then, boom, enter the market. And that will get you into the current rhythm of the market condition. So that's entry dealt with, right? I hope you see I've given you a very good way to get started in terms of entry. Now, in terms of stop loss, stop loss is a very, very tricky one, OK? I showed you the market can really play around with you and whatever. Is this any surprise, guys? What actually is the market, right? If you think about it, it's just human beings. I've said this before. You have to understand if anyone tells you that this is where you should put your stop for my strategy. And I'm going to be rude. They're talking out of where the sun don't shine. And I'll tell you why that is, because what is the market? The market is what? Human beings. You know, and I've said this before, if you have any relatives, human beings, people, you know, can you predict with 100 percent certainty how they're going to behave in the next moment? No, you can't. You can have a pretty good idea, but you can't. That's why there is no such thing. That's why I even enter the way I do, because I know this price, maybe this price, maybe this has happened, something's changed. Yeah. Buyers and sellers, they had this. OK, maybe the behavior's changed now. A lot of things going on because I'm trying to work around people's changing behaviors dynamically after I even decide to enter. Things are changing all the time. So really, stop loss is incredibly difficult. However, again, let me get you started until you develop this understanding of being able to maybe read the market a little bit, look at all the flow things. It's good to get you started somewhere. OK, so I'm going to give you some options again. I hinted here that, you know, for example, let's say you got in here. Right. First option is. Put your stop loss, it could be here below the swing low. OK. But the danger is, like I said, you get stopped out, then you have to be able to enter straight away. You can put it below the next swing low. OK, you choose. You know, if you're going to be away for a few hours or 20 minutes or whatever, you're going to put it down here. If you're the type of guy that likes sitting there watching this, put it there. And then I'll show you the cumulative delta as well. And you can watch that to see if there's any absorption or anything like that going on as the market approaches that level. If there's absorption. Then just don't stop out. You can maybe have your stop down here and you can watch it. You see, it's up to you. Or you can stop out. If there's absorption, get back in straight away. If you see market orders come in and aggressive, get back in. Use the order flow to help you get back in. But in terms of stop loss, that's one option. That's the second option. The third option is literally. If the market's going up and it's got, say, a rhythm of. And I don't want to draw it there because I just don't want to cover that. But let's say it's a normal trend. Well, let's say it's a fast trend and that's the normal trend of 1 SD. 1.5 SD. I think this is quite a sensible one as well. You can use. I don't use it. Right, guys. But again, I'm trying to help you out to get you started in terms of where your stop loss should be. That's a fast trend. That's a normal trend. Now, what you can do is think about it's quite clever. You can put your stop where the market would have to change. Rhythm. Or condition even, potentially. And that's where your stop goes, right? So for the rhythm to change from a 1.5 imbalance to a 1 sort of balance, it would have to do what? So let's say the market's merry on its way. I would put it behind. Rather than putting it behind the 1.5 because we know it can just blip, blip, blip, blip for it to really change. We're going to have to do what? Really come down and start to build some value. Probably even below sort of one standard deviation. Right. So to sort of keep this whole area clear, you can put it below the previous value or whatever the market condition is just below there. So if you do get a change. Market condition is still OK. And then it just goes below. It just stops here. All right. So it allows you this sort of freedom. But if the market, sorry, not the market condition, but it could be the market condition because it could go obviously into a reversal. But basically, I would put it just behind the next sort of area of value measurement. So, you know, could be the one SD. Obviously, if you're at the one standard deviation, you might want to put it behind the VWAP. So just options, guys. So here, for example, you see you get in here and your stock would be kind of behind maybe the 0.5 because it's a normal trend. Just put it behind the next one. OK, if we were, you know, my point before was if we were in a fast trend like that, just put it here. And that will give you a bit of room if we get a bit of change, a bit of choppiness going back. You know what I mean? It gives you a nice bit of breathing space. You don't need to keep worrying about all these little fake outs, etc. So I'm giving you options. Obviously, here you're going to take on more risk. OK. Targets we'll talk about, obviously, in a different section. I mean, I've given you expectations already anyway, haven't I? So, you know, if you're obviously doing the return to value pullback, you're going to typically scale at the POC and you're going to go to the other side. You obviously break out and go unbalanced out of the sort of value area low or value area high or whatever. You're looking to go to what? The next area of composite. So I'm going to show you this stuff anyway. So we'll go through this now. But I just wanted to talk to you a little bit about entries and exits. And, you know, I hope you can see I haven't just left you in the lurch. In fact, I'll give you some great options. And in my opinion, this stuff anyway is better than what you've been shown, even where you have been given clear stop losses, because this is what? Stop losses according to where the market orders are, especially the last one. Where you're giving it room not to have a condition change or a rhythm change, you're giving it some room. And then over time, what you'll notice is. Right. So, for example, I said here, if you entered here or here or whatever and you've got your stop here, you can start to read the order flow. OK, you can see here it gives you some freedom. Oh, what were the sellers doing here? Did they get absorbed? Oh, great. I can add to my entry here. So I entered here. I'm entering here. Great. Do you see what I mean? You can start to develop at least some semblance of what I'm doing. Obviously, I'm doing it with huge size, multiple contracts. It's going to take you time. But for now, just enter, you know, with one or two contracts, whatever, see how you get on. Just try to fit one of these methods around you. By all means, use if you think something's better. But, you know, I think this is pretty good because it does take into account, obviously, market orders, etc. So I hope that was useful. Any questions, obviously, let me know. But let's get on the charts now and actually get you doing the task and bringing dynamic and static value together. Thank you.