All right, correct. So it's recording. Can everyone see my screen? You can just type into the chat if you can't, but hopefully you can. See the screen. Perfect. Yeah, awesome. Hopefully I'm not blocking anything. Unfortunately, I can't see myself. But anyway, that's not a bad thing. But there you go. So firstly, I just want to say thanks, everyone, for jumping on board with the community. You know, it's going to be very informal today. It's the first kind of session. So just want to kind of, yeah, thought it would be nice for me to do like jump on myself and kind of say hello to everyone. Obviously, you're probably sick of me anyway, because you hear me for like hours, probably in your sleep after you've been spending hours watching the course. And I'm sure most of you know, it was never intended to be that long, the course. I kind of literally just started with the first stage or section or whatever it's called, and then it just built on from there. I wasn't, I didn't really structure it. Obviously, I had a rough outline, but just ended up being long because it was just, I didn't even know I had that much in my head and it just all came out. So it is what it is. But there you go. So I thought that anyway, I would jump on this session myself and say hello to everyone. Kind of give you an outline of what to expect from the community, how to make the most of it. Probably just pick these up quickly before we get going. And obviously, I'll show you some training examples today. And if there's any questions, you know, as much as possible, I want to try and keep it quite short. Obviously, today is the Euro final or whatever. So maybe in the future, we'll have longer sessions. I'll try and keep it quite short today so everyone can end up. But you got the recording anyway, so you can go over it. Just important to make it clear, right? You still get, whether you stay in the community, whether you don't, whatever you decide, you know, I'm not one of those people that says to people, hey, you're going to fail without doing this bit and that bit. No, the Prime Foundation is the main thing, the main element of the education and always will be everything, as you know. It's so comprehensive. It's got everything you need to succeed in there. And obviously, if you want to kind of have a few bells and whistles, it's nice to be part of the community. Obviously, you get a bit more daily interaction. But, you know, just want to make clear that you're still going to get support over the email, as you've noticed. That will always continue whether you stay in the community or not. So don't worry. I'll always have that unlimited support for any technical staff from, you know, if you want to send in charts and whatever. As you have been, obviously, here in a room, it's a little bit more interactive and you can do it kind of more in real time. So I guess it's obviously nice. It's nice to have. So that's the reason for having the community. But you will always have that. Same with the members blog. It probably will become, as you've noticed, it hasn't been updated as much as it used to be. It's going to become more of an archive, but I'm always going to give people free access to that. And I'm going to leave that database there so you can always reference back to that. Great archive of trades there for you to make use of. And then again, apologies, it's just a little bit more formalities. I just want to get it out of the way because it's the first time, obviously, that we are here together. And also for those that can't make it, obviously, you'll be watching this on the recording. But essentially, how to make the most use out of the group, the G7 group or community or whatever you want to call it, is still obviously evolving. It's been, what, three days. But the plan anyway, obviously, plans sometimes do get tweaked. But the plan so far anyway is that we will... Let me just bring it up here, actually. So you can see it here. The plan so far is that... Sorry, just give me a second. Get rid of some of these annotations. Anyway, I don't seem to be able to get rid of them. But anyway, the plans so far is that every day there's going to be high posts posted by... At the moment, there's generally three... Sorry, I'm just trying to switch between this and... OK. Let me just get the annotation out. So yeah, you'll have mainly in the mornings, I believe it's like FX. Obviously, to go with the FX timing, so London session. And as a lot of you know, even though obviously I did the MyFX books for a whole year and I was doing a lot of FX, I do focus heavily on the SMP now. It makes it easier for me. It's more a lifestyle kind of thing because I'm starting a family and all of that stuff. So it gives me more time in the morning to deal with other things that I've got going on, which means I don't need to trade London. And there's plenty, plenty, as you guys see, so much money to be made even if you're trading one market. And you'll notice that. If you're starting off trading loads of markets, it's fine. Obviously, there's more kind of information there for you to practice on because then you get obviously more trades and more kind of watching screen time or whatever. If you want to do more than one market, that's fine. And some people obviously prefer to trade London because for whatever reason, they're at work or they find it difficult to trade the afternoons. But eventually, and if you haven't already noticed, plenty of money to be made in one market. So myself, I do like to focus on and more recently this year, I've been focusing pretty much solely on the S&P 500, plenty of money to be made. And it fits in nicely with me being able to just kind of do stuff in the morning. I've got some other businesses as well, obviously family stuff. And then in the afternoon, I can trade the S&P. But for the room, what I've done, because I understand that with people who like to be around in the mornings and sometimes trade the FX markets, I do have a couple of guys who are really, really good, very consistent. And I've got, I'm going to get them, or they have already started, they're going to be posting FX in the morning. So that'll be London. I don't know the exact times, let it evolve. Obviously, we can do another one of these where I can clear this up a little bit. I might have a web page where I'll get this a little bit more organised, but say around, I don't know, eight, nine o'clock. I don't know the exact time he does it, but eight, nine o'clock UK time, maybe slightly earlier before London opens. I can't remember, but somewhere around there, there'll be some FX. Hypo's and then obviously after that midday, maybe S&P and then crude Hypo's as well. And then we'll see how it goes. Obviously, in the future, if crypto gets more volume at the moment, there's not much volume on the CME when it comes to crypto. Sorry, let me just close the door. I'm sorry about that. Yeah, on crypto, there's not much volume at the moment on the CME, so not necessarily looking at that. But I do have one person that I'm doing some crypto stuff with. He was quite interested that I'm doing as part of the mentoring stuff. So maybe next year, I'll be looking at that so we can introduce that in the future. But at the moment, that's the focus, FX, S&P and crude. Sorry about this, guys. Just give me one second. OK, just bear with me. All right, guys, sorry about that. I just had to deal with something, but we're all good. So yeah, like I was saying, those are going to be the main markets. You've got Hypo's and so on and so forth. And then recaps at the end of the day, obviously, that you can help. But look, that's just one part of it. So I noticed this week, I think people were just kind of getting used to things and kind of, oh, what's all this community about? What can I see? And you're seeing Hypo's. And I don't know if people are a little bit tentative because obviously, you just joined and someone lost sound. I don't know if people are a little bit, obviously, tentative and like, oh, I don't know exactly what I can or cannot do here. And then obviously, towards the end, I did see people get a little bit more comfortable, start speaking in there and stuff. So what I would suggest, and the reason I brought the Discord up, so what you can do is if someone posts a Hypo throughout the day, don't hesitate to tag them, for example. So for example, if Hypo here, Gabrielle or someone else, there's you know, Obi or even Darren in the mornings. If someone says something you don't quite understand, just tag them, right, in here, student analysis. Tag them at whatever. And if you're not familiar with how it works, the Discord, again, email me or support and I can obviously teach you. But the best thing is rather than just typing in, you can tag them or you can tag someone if you want. If you just want to ask generally in the room, that's fine as well. And then obviously, people will jump in. But if you want to ask one of the mentors in the actual analysis room, tag them. Otherwise, they won't see it because there'll just be a whole load of words. So feel free to do that. Don't be shy. Tag them. Hey, I saw your video. I didn't quite understand this. Can you explain it to me? No problem at all. So that would be what I would suggest. General chat, obviously, just whatever. Let's just see how it goes with that. You can talk about whatever you want. And then profit and losses, obviously, again, you can post losses as well. Don't ask, they'll just be profits. I can have a look. Other people will have a look. This trade didn't go so well, and so on and so forth. Don't be shy. No one wins 100% of the time. It just doesn't work like that. So if you lose a trade, post it in there. If you win a trade, post it in there. It's fine. It doesn't matter. If you want some feedback, you can tag one of the guys again if you want, or someone will just jump in. And I think that's it. And then tech support. Obviously, the email is there. Some of you have been used to speaking to Reggie or whoever else I've had working on support. And as you know, they're very, very responsive. If you want to do that, like I said at the start, whether you're part of the community or not, you'll get that. If you want to do it a little bit more interactively, you can just put it in here. You might get one of the other guys who are very good at Sierra, because obviously, they might have been using it for a while, jump in or whatnot. So that's pretty much it. Announcements is obviously any webinars. So yeah, talking about webinars, obviously, we're doing this one today. I don't know exactly what the format is going to be. Like I said, I'm going to get organized. I will have a page built where we're going to put things a little bit more orderly, like exactly what you can expect, because I just don't know at the moment. But there will be stuff like this regularly. I don't just want it to be sitting there in a chat. We're going to do regular stuff, maybe once a week or once every couple of weeks. I don't know exactly. It won't always be me. And you're going to see today, guys, I'm probably not the best person to be doing these webinars, because you're going to see how, because I've been doing this for so long, 15, 20 years now, my organization, when it comes to and you would have seen this in the course, and even guys who've done mentoring with me will tell you, it's atrocious. I'm a disaster when it comes to mapping out hypos. And I just don't do it, because obviously, I've been doing it for so long. I don't need to do it. But at your level, it's so important you do it, like sit there and write it out that this is what's happened overnight. This is what's happened during the RTH. Oh, I noticed this behavior. I don't do that. OK. I'm the worst person to be showing you that during sessions. Obviously, I'm happy to do it. You know, I understand. I've built the course. People want to hear from me. And that's why I'm happy to do that. I'm more than happy to do it. But I'm just not the best example. So I'll do stuff like this once in a while. I'll obviously come along more than happy. And anytime someone requests it, I'm more than happy to do it. But generally, it's going to be the guys who do the hypos and recaps, because they are consistent. They do very well. And they make money. But they're fairly new to order flow, like a couple of years or whatever. So they're much more organized than I am. So they can show you in a much more natural way how they approach the day, because they're probably doing that every day. I'm not. So that's why I actually think it's a benefit to have some other guys. And also, different points of view. It's good to have that. So I hope everyone sees that as a positive, that we will have the webinars, but probably not going to be me all the time, which I think is a good thing for the aforementioned reasons. What we might do, we're going to give you an opportunity. Maybe you all have an unthinking in my mind. If you've got ideas or suggestions, email me. I'm happy to incorporate them if I think they're good. But also, I'm thinking of doing a student spotlight type thing. If one student feels confident and wants to come on and actually show us what they're doing, and then one of the other mentors or me or whatever can have a look at it and say, OK, maybe this could have been done differently, or everything was perfect, everything you've done. So that kind of thing. Try and vary it up a bit. But again, you can see by the amount I'm just babbling on that we haven't got an exact format, because I want to see how it goes over the next few weeks. And I think it will fall nicely into place. So that's that. Hopefully everything's clear in terms of how to make best use of this. Jump in. And also, one thing I just forgot. So this hypo section is obviously for the guys who are kind of mentoring and already consistent, and they're going to be giving you hypos and recaps and stuff. Don't be shy. If you've got a hypo, put it in there, the student analysis section. OK. This might split out later into crude or ES. But at the moment, I'm keeping as is, because obviously I don't know how it will turn out. But feel free to chuck your hypos in there every day, what you're doing. No limit. Just go for it. Don't be shy. It doesn't matter if it's the worst hypo in the world. You never know. You might learn something out of it, and someone might comment, and you'll learn from it. So just don't be shy. Hopefully that's very, very clear. Everyone feels confident the next week to just be more involved. And we'll take it from there, and then obviously we'll see how it goes. All right, guys. So that's that. If you have any questions, obviously, you can ask me in the chat. If it's really urgent, maybe you can unmute yourself. But probably better to just put it in the chat. I think I've covered most of what I wanted to cover, and hopefully that's clear. If it's not, again, just ask in the chat. Otherwise, you can drop me an email later on as well. So I think I've pretty much covered that. Covered that. Covered that. So what I thought would be nice, just as a starter, I don't know what the other guys have got planned. Like I said, they're probably going to be much more organised than me. I thought I would just go over very briefly some of what I was doing last week, see if there's any questions, and then kind of wrap it up as a nice kind of first session. So let's do that, basically. Let me just bring up my file and get rid of this. Is everything clear, right, about the community and whatnot? Anyone got any urgent questions or good? Yeah. I don't know if it's got anything. Adrian's just asking about Discord last year. Yeah, I had a Discord last year, mate, and it was open, like it was open for people who were on the Prime Foundation course, who were not on the Prime Foundation course, and I just felt it was getting very busy. You know, there's a lot of people who've never done the course coming and joining in the room, and so it didn't kind of make sense to me, and I took a step back from it, and also it was very difficult for me as an individual, because I think, I'm sure you guys will have, you know, I don't talk about other educators personally, but I don't know if you guys notice, there's a lot of guys who maybe do a lot of education who, they're constantly busy updating this, updating that, and I question, do these people actually trade, right? The thing is, because I'm so busy during the day trading, and it does form the majority of my income, I kind of take it so seriously, I don't necessarily have time to kind of update the room all the time and stuff, so last year when I had the free Discord, I was finding I was affecting my trading, because I was spending so much time in that room. I didn't have people to help me out, I didn't really have, obviously I've just started, I haven't met other kind of all the flow traders who'd either done my course or were consistent or were already in the kind of retail community. Obviously now it's been a year and a half, I've got three or four great guys who have shown me, and I can see that they're consistent already, so I feel confident in having other people who I know are going to bring a lot of value, and they can actually come and help and do much more than I ever could. Number one, and number two is obviously it's now only for Crown Foundation customers, so at least I have, you know, the people you're talking to in the room are on the same level as you, they're doing the course. That was a problem with the last Discord that I had and why I've shut it down, so hopefully that's clear. All right, so this was kind of last week what I was doing. Again, look, I'm very happy, right, I'm an open book, I'll show you kind of all my fields, I've got no problem with that. Let me just show you my... Yeah, so you can see it's my live account, Friday, 400 bucks, pretty slim day. I'm sure you guys know what I've been doing over the week, did about 4k on Thursday, did like 5, 6, 700 on Tuesday, Wednesday, and then Monday I think there was something or whatever. I mean, you can have a look at it, I'm more than happy to show you what I was doing. I think it's quite important that you kind of have the confidence that, yeah, this guy who's telling me to do stuff, he actually does it himself, he's not just talking out of his backside, so I think it's quite important that you see that. So I'm happy to show you exactly what I was doing and then what we'll do is I'll actually talk you through a little bit of my thought process. So Friday, which was yesterday, I was buying the market and I'm going to talk about Friday because I did talk about Thursday a little bit on my YouTube video, if you've seen that. I didn't go into obviously all the details, I'm going to go into here because obviously you're part of the community and I'm going to go into much more detail. Why is there Thursday? So you can have a look on the YouTube video and I don't really want to repeat it, it's a bit pointless. Slightly different day, but I will talk about it, why the execution was slightly different. As you know, it was a lot more of an aggressive style of trading, it was much more aggressive. So that was Thursday and then I can't even remember what I did on Wednesday, did I trade? Yeah, so a bit of a break-even day on Wednesday in the sideways market and then Tuesday, caught some sales, so a fairly decent day selling the market. And then Monday, I think it was a bank holiday. Yeah, bank holiday. Friday, I didn't trade and I don't know what else I was doing. Thursday, yeah, you can see all the films there, whatever. In the future, I'm happy to show you my blotter as well. I use, what do I use? I forgot. I trade a few, I use it to just look at my stats and stuff like that. We can do that in another webinar, another session, happy to show you stats. But this is Friday, OK? And basically, you know, what I think is really useful for people to understand is, I'm always looking for something to lean on, OK, when I'm trading. So what I'm probably, like I said, I'm really, honestly, if you saw my desk, it's just, it's my girlfriend's worst nightmare. It's just a mess, OK? I'm not very good at being organised. I like to just keep it in my mind, but I don't want it to be like that. Do, do, obviously, do the stuff that I talk about in the course, so, you know, overnight session when you're coming in. Spend 30 minutes or 60 minutes when you're just starting out, you know, thinking these things through. I'm so bad, I can't even remember the exact elements. But, and again, this is where the other mentors will be brilliant, because they'll be so much more organised. But off the top of my head, you know, obviously, looking at the BVA, looking at what the rhythm and condition was on the day. Well, if you've got order flow, right, all these things are so important. CVA, right, which you see, obviously, here. And then if you look at footprint and stuff, that's obviously much more micro. Don't look at that at the start of the day. It's the worst mistake I see people make. They just start trading with their footprint from, unless you're scalping, obviously, if you're scalping, it's slightly different. You know, just taking kicks out of the market, maybe that's your style. And I think some of the mentors do incorporate that. So if you want to do that, fine. But this is the footprint, I won't look at it, okay, especially, I don't, as I've progressed, I don't look at it so much, if at all. But I think because you guys are starting out, you're still in your first 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 years of order flow trading, look at it. But I don't really look at it, because I kind of know what's going on, because I've been looking at it for so many years. But my point is, don't start with the footprint, in my opinion. It's just so enticing. I don't know if people find that, it's so enticing. It's almost screaming, hey, come trade me, because you see all these orders coming in. Don't do that, switch it off, right? When you're starting your day, get the broader picture, try and figure out what you're kind of doing. I forgot the migration, didn't I? Value migration, the broader piece. And if you look at it from a cleaner perspective, it will be quite obvious to me, easy for me to say, but obviously, I've been doing it many years, but it does become fairly obvious. And I think, we can see that S&P is obviously consistently making, you can say new highs, it's fine. It doesn't matter. I don't buy into this, making new high stuff. I really couldn't care less. It doesn't matter. The point is going up. That's all that matters. Whether it's going up here or going up in the middle of nowhere, it's going up. There isn't anything around us. So for example, if I expand the composite, there's nothing here to the left, right? In the past, I've looked back, like maybe one or two years. I don't do it anymore. If you're starting out and you want to obviously practice with the composites, and I know people have this, want this security blanket all the time, although I need some composite levels or I need some levels, do it, right? And evolve yourself. I always say in the course, I want you to figure this out for yourself and not, don't do what I tell you to do all the time. Obviously, you've got rid of those ridiculous lines and stuff that we know. They're just random rubbish. That's fine. As long as you're not using that stuff, it's fine. How you actually use the order flow, whether you want to use it the same way I do, whether you want to go back further, two years, five years, whatever, that's fine. You're using the order flow, but here's my thought process on why I don't go back further. I used to, until very recently, maybe, I don't know, a few years, two, three years, which is a very short time because obviously I've been doing it for a long time. So maybe two, three years, I stopped going back because I don't know. One day, I had this thought when I was sitting and thinking logically, and again, I encourage you to do this. Don't be distracted by what people are saying around you, even me. Make sure it's logical to you. In my head, I was sitting here, and I was like, you know what? I talk about value a lot. What is value? Value is obviously people's perceptions of where they think the fair price is, whether it's the S&P 500, whether it's, who cares, right? Whether it's a bottle of mineral water, or whether it's a phone, or whether it's a cup of coffee, it doesn't matter. It's people's perceptions, right? And I was thinking to myself, having watched it for years, and it just occurred to me that human beings are so short term in their thinking, very myopic, very reactionary to what's happened recently. And it just occurred to me, realistically, you know, if we've established a price a year ago, what's the likelihood a human being, and let's not forget, this is human beings, right? Okay, it might be an algorithm with the futures market, obviously, it is heavily algo focused, but who built the algo? The human being, right? And the human brain is an algo anyway, so whatever, it all comes back, in my opinion, to humans, because algos are adjusted by who? Humans, right? So obviously, humans are adjusting algorithms to behaviours. And to cut a long story short, basically, I think it's obvious to everyone now that I say that I think if you're a human being, you're going to be more influenced by what's happening here in your immediate line of sight than what's happened two years ago. Also, if you think about it, on Amazon, right? If you go on Amazon, I love Amazon, for some reason, but whatever, it's just an easy example, because everyone knows it. Think about it, if you buy something on Amazon, like a TV or whatever it is, and you're, you know, you see the, you're on Amazon, put it there, AMZ, Amazon, and you go to the listings, and you're looking at a TV, right? And you're like, I don't know, it's a Sony TV, and it's $1,000, just making this up. But you get the point. You're like, oh, is that expensive? Is it not? Should I pay that price right now? What do you do? You go on Google, you have a look, you see what other companies are selling it for. Even if you go on Amazon, you do compare prices, right? You want to make sure you're not being ripped off. Even Amazon sometimes don't have the most efficient pricing, so you check it. Do you go and see what prices were two years ago? No, you don't, right? You go and look at what's the price right now on other websites. So, I don't know, it just occurred to me in the last couple years, three years, that I just felt like, you know what, let me not get too concerned about stuff that's way far back. It's probably not that relevant. So, I think that's up to me. The reason I've said all of this is because it's quite relevant to the S&P at the moment, right? The S&P is in uncharted territory. There isn't stuff going back too far. And people get very nervous. They contact me all the time. Oh, my God, I haven't got these levels. And I agree with you. It is a little bit, can make you a bit anxious, and it can be a bit unnerving sometimes to obviously not have levels. But I would say, don't worry about it too much if it isn't there. And the reason I said, you know, use your own logic. What I meant by that and question things is, just because I tell you this, don't take my word for it. Use levels from ages ago. See how the market reacts to them, right? Crude especially, we do, I think, have levels going back wherever we are right now. I haven't looked at crude for a couple of weeks. I can't remember where we are. But I know some of you trade crude, great market to trade. And there are levels from maybe further back. And then just see and decide for yourself and come to the conclusion yourself, OK? Don't never, ever just take anyone's word for it. It's just my suggestion, OK? So what I did with the S&P, and this was occurring to me, because when I came in and to the session on Friday, Thursday I was much more aggressive because we did have and this composite to lean off, which I'll just merge it. OK, so we had the composite to lean off, which I'm sure most of you have seen. I do like to mark the point of controls. I think they're quite useful. What we've been doing, right? We've been going up. We come back. It's clearly a retracement in the marketplace. And where we've come back to is this area. We had the composite. I had something to lean on. So that's why I got aggressive. But on Friday was a very different day. It was a very tricky day because we didn't have clear stuff to lean on. So this is why I gave the whole speech about, you know, do you have stuff going further back or not? Even if I had stuff from the S&P about two years ago, I personally, I'd be very nervous about using that. I would still like to focus on what is in my line of sight. So I'm looking back. Look, going back to May, this is like mid-May here. Right, we're talking two months. In the last two months, I can't see any sort of volume. So I'm thinking, all right, probably can't lean on anything here. Maybe if there was something a little bit further back within three months, four months, I might look at it, but there's just nothing. So I came into the market and I was like, OK, this is a very, very tricky day. So I had to find something to lean on. So for me, I did try to look at this and I did try to merge initially these two, which is the bank holiday. OK, now typically I don't like to merge such small volume days because to me it's almost like half a day, if that. So I don't necessarily want to merge that. I was getting desperate, right? I was like, just give me something, something to kind of give me some clues what this market might be leaning itself on. So I merged it. I just didn't like how it looked. I didn't like the shape of it. You can see it's not, well, in my opinion, it's fine if you do merge it. It's fine if you do merge it, but I don't know if you guys agree, but look at the value areas, right? They're very inconsistent or not. They're very not representative of where value is. Would you agree value is mainly that the bulk of like 70, 80 percent, what we call the standard deviation, took place there? Should be there, right? Should be there. There maybe. That should be the value area in my mind. Don't always rely on the software. This is why I say, you know, question everything. If the software, it's just software, OK? It's not always going to be 100 percent accurate. It's not some magic. I know people love to sell software and say, hey, it's the path to the next riches. Complete bullshit, right? At the end of the day, it's just software. It's not always going to be 100 percent accurate. If a value area doesn't look right to me, according to the software, I'm not going to use it, right? So you can see the lower standard deviation, a value area low was there. It just looks so wrong. I mean, it's miles away from where the bulk is. So I could tell the software obviously wasn't liking it. It's probably not right. Let me just see. Someone mentioned that they merged four days from 2nd of July to 4th of July. Let me just take a look at that. Second to the fourth. Yeah, I think that's pretty good to be honest. I hadn't spotted that. I have to be honest. Yeah, I didn't like it. I think if you merge these two, I still don't like it. But that's my opinion, OK? I think it's difficult. So let me just discuss this properly with the annotation so you see what I'm talking about. The reason I don't like it is because I feel like, as I mentioned before, that's the main bulk of volume there. And I do think that clearly the market was reacting on this day where it was forming a range day. Clearly the market was kind of happy to transact based on. And again, don't forget guys, what is the market? It's like, I know I say this all the time, but it just honestly amazes me. I mean, I don't even know why it amazes me because it's so obvious. People are looking for, OK, whether they're buying TVs, whether they're buying this, whether they're buying that. Where should I transact today? What's kind of the area where I think I'm getting a good deal? What's a fair price? They're always looking for other things to lean on. So clearly on this day, as the market went up and rallied, I wanted to settle and find kind of an area where they thought it was a fair reflection of the S&P currently. Clearly they were leaning on that. So I think that and that area do kind of make sense from a volume perspective. The problem is this area, I just don't think it matches, if that makes sense. I feel like there's a very clear divide between the value here. I think if it was a little bit further up or if, you know, if this was further down, then obviously we could merge these two days. So, yeah, I feel like it was a very clear signal from the market from one day to the other. So let me just make this clear. From this day, relative to this day, the market was clearly telling us that it was moving up. This is just my thought process, OK. If you want to merge them, if you want to merge them, I don't necessarily think it's like, I'm not going to sit here and say you're completely wrong. The only time I'm really going to say you're completely wrong, I mean, let's merge them anyway, see how they look. Merge that together. Can you see, you can almost see what I'm talking about here. Can you see, it's very much like you've got value here, then you've got value here and then you've got value. Do you see you're kind of forcing that into that area there and the market isn't balancing over these three days. It's balancing over this day and the day we had here. But this day, it clearly wasn't, in my opinion, but we'll merge it anyway. Someone asked if you're allowed to put your own value areas. Yeah, you can. That's fine. But I wouldn't recommend it because it will become a mess. I'll talk about that in a second. So, yeah, coming back to Guillermo who merged these, I think it's OK. It's not disastrous. There was obviously some overlap between the days. So it looks OK. But for me, I didn't do it. I mean, you can see I didn't do it. So for the reasons that I mentioned, let's have a look anyway. Quite a wide value area, right? You know, when you have these big wide value areas with, I think he's telling us something that the market wasn't. If you think about it, right, again, don't think of these areas as some magic lines or areas. All they are, and I keep saying this about things in the real world like TVs, phones, and it's not because I'm trying to treat people like children. In fact, the opposite. I want you to realise how this stuff, it's an asset exactly like what you buy. Price is determined in the same way. In the same way, right? If you're in the TV business and you're buying and selling TVs and you're looking to make a profit, it's very difficult to run that business by having, by saying to yourself, right, I think the fair price in this market is this wide. It's quite wide, I think, especially the way the S&P moves, because it does get quite rotational and then move, rotational and then move. It's quite a wide value area, so I think it reflects all the things I was saying, but only useful thing out of this, I think, is the point of control, right? This area here. Clearly, once we went above, yeah, the market kind of just moved above this whole area and that gave it the signal to say, yes, and I did obviously look at that, but I hadn't merged it. This is just my kind of thought process why I wouldn't merge it, but I think if you did, you can. Yeah, it's not the worst thing to do in the world, but I just don't like it. Final point on this, I've been talking a lot about this, is where I would say to you, hey, just don't do that, right, is this. So I just want to make sure that no one has sent me a message to say that anyone's missing anything. That's right. Yeah, sorry. So the only way that I would say to you, you know, don't merge this section here. Obviously, I do. I made it quite clear. I would want this to be a little bit, at least have some more overlap, which it didn't. I think this value area line here is very deceiving. Like I said, it should really be up there. Can you see as soon as you put it there, it does kind of discount up. The only way I would say to you guys is, you know, if you have something like this value area there and then you're here, you know, I'm going to exaggerate a bit, but you get the point. When you merge something like that, then I would say this is, you know, maybe go back to the drawing board and have a think about whether that's the best thing to do. I think in this situation, obviously, it was, there was some overlap between the lows of the days. That one was much lower. So the low of the day, the high of this day, there was some overlap. Very weak. That's just my opinion. Hopefully that's helpful. What was he saying? Yeah, I wouldn't mark, Raj, I wouldn't mark your own value areas. Nothing wrong with it. Theoretically. But what would happen, so kind of this contradicts what I was saying about not using this stuff too systematically, is you can imagine if you started to mark all these by hand, you're going to get into a whole mess. It swings and roundabouts. Use it, use the lines, obviously do mark the system generated lines, but kind of just keep in mind, at the back of your mind that, all right, maybe it's not 100% accurate or whatever. That's why obviously there's other factors you'll be looking at. So things like the developing value area in the day, are we in balance, balanced? Are we getting aggressive? Are we going to attack? It will kind of give you that extra needed confirmation that you need that your value area is being respected or is accurate and so on and so forth. So I wouldn't mark them. I think it just gets too messy otherwise. And then you forget sometimes, did you mark it? Why did I mark that? At least with the system generated one, it's just done. And the ones where they're not, where you've got question marks over it, just leave it. Don't use it. Which brings me back to, I'll have a look at Chris's question in a second, but let me just come back to this day in question. So coming back to your point, Raj, so for me, I didn't like what the system had generated, so I didn't merge everything together. I kind of came into this day a little bit nervous already from the start. A lot of people say to me on Thursday, oh my god, you got so aggressive. I talked about my YouTube video. What people don't see is that my early positions were very small size. I get aggressive at the right areas, a little bit more advanced. But another take on it here with the leverage, if you notice, I didn't get silly. I didn't get very aggressive, did I? I kept it quite tiny. I think it was maybe three or four contracts, I can't remember, on this particular day because I already knew. I'm adjusting in my mind. People don't kind of adjust for this, and I don't think you need to worry about it too much right now, especially if you're in the sim phase. It will come later. But when you see a market like this, obviously you've got to think to yourself, hang on, you know what? I'm not going to get as aggressive with my leverage. When I've got something clear to lean on, I'm coming into this day, right? We opened here, the blue dot, you can see it, open. Kind of in no man's land, right? You've got a risk down below. I was kind of, one thing to Raji's point, guys, one thing I do like to look at sometimes in my mind, I won't mark it here. I can see there's volume there. I can see there's volume there, right? And even though I said to Guillermo that I don't like to merge days where the values are so obviously apart, it's kind of there in my mind, okay, there's some interest in the market here. So this area here, and I've said to you guys before, sometimes you can use individual days if you want. I don't mark individual days, I keep them in my mind. If you want to mark them, you can mark them. But the point is, can you see there was a gap between here and here? So I was already nervous coming into this day, and let me show you going back to the day. Can you see, I didn't execute, guys. I was here, right? You know, I didn't execute, okay? And one of the things I want to say, and I do apologize, I know that, you know, some people might be like, hey, we want to know what I'm doing in the day, but I hope people understand I'm throwing some serious money at the market and it's quite distracting for me to update in the room, hey, I'm looking at this. Obviously, I do focus 100%, but I was here. That's my point. The point is, I was here. It's not like I was away or something. I was here at this stage. I was like, we're in no man's land. Why do I want to chase this market? You know, there's nothing, no reason to trade the market. Look where we are. We're just in the middle of nowhere. We're in the desert. There's nothing there. You know, if we come back further down, I was thinking in my mind, if we come back further down and maybe into some previous volume areas, there might be something there for me. Ideally, I would have wanted us to come into this day and see how we reacted and traded on that day and see if the, I suspect, given the way the market's been retracing, right, there to there, kind of there to there, if we think about in terms of what the rotations have been like, probably into that area kind of makes sense. You can see equidistant, right? Just nothing complicated. Just literally looking at what the market's been, what's the propensity of the market to pull back in the S&P at the moment. That region would have been quite interesting, but obviously we didn't do that. So this is where, you know, coming into my day, what was going on in my head? I'm kind of watching, right? I'm like, okay, I need something to lean on. The market isn't giving me any previous levels. I can't trade right now. Let me see how the day evolves, right? What type of day have we got? I talked about overnight session here. You know, overnight, is there anything that I can really use? Has the market done anything overnight that I could potentially use in my favour? Not really. It's kind of just imbalanced, right? So I suppose there is that. And sorry, I haven't got the other one. I do switch between them. I know you guys look, and the other one's really useful, by the way, when you've got the value area lines, the DVA 0.5 or whatever it is, okay? I do use that sometimes. I switch between them. I get very fidgety between the two of them. I do like to look at both of them. But obviously, like I said, I've been doing it so many years, sometimes I like to just look at this. It's a little bit cleaner for me in my mind, but I use the other ones. Obviously, I can't remember exactly what it was. Was it probably some sort of normal trend or whatever was going on? But overnight, it was clearly imbalanced, right? Above the VVAP. The rotation, we hadn't... So what am I looking for? Well, look at the rotation, right? We tried for a rotation. What happened? Nothing. The rotation failed, okay? Market tried to do what? Rotate overnight. Got blown out of the water, range players from overnight got blown out of the water. Those that were trying to play the range overnight here, around where we had interest the previous day, really didn't hold. And then we just kind of went inward. Wasn't really that much for me to glean from the overnight session, to be honest, apart from the fact that we were failed rotation and were imbalanced. So clearly, I'm going to sell this market in a million years, okay? I don't really have an interest. I think it's suicide to even try to fade this market. I see it all the time from people trying to fade at these... When the market's clearly tending, you've got no interest in going down. Well, why the hell am I going to sell it? Well, I'm not going to sell this market. No reason to sell it. Can't really... Nothing to lean off on. Anyway, the market's clearly told you overnight was to go up. So the market's gone up. We're coming into the RTH. So I was just sitting here, okay? Overnight, like I said, imbalanced. All the flow kind of was looking at that as well, positive, right? I guess you could say, look, went negative, failed, right? I don't write this stuff down. I want you to write this stuff down. I did this religiously for years. This was going to make you better. This one, I'm the worst person to learn from because I don't write this down. If I write it down, within about 10 minutes, I've lost the piece of paper I wrote it down on. The desk is a mess, complete shambles. Do the opposite to what I do. Write it down. Be straight, okay? Earn the right to not have to write it down. It'll take a few years, but write it down. I think it's very interesting. You can see all these things I'm pointing out. Let me just have a look. I'll come back to that in a second. Let me just colour this. Order flow, yeah. So the order flow is positive, obviously failed. Again, you could link that to the overnight. There's going to be some overlaps, obviously, between what you're writing down on your piece of paper. The order flow, obviously, starts overnight and then carries on into the RTH. Excuse me. So yeah, like I said, order flow is positive. Couldn't really see any reason to buy the market. I didn't know, right? I don't know. Automarketing could come back, could come and test the VWAP, could decide that, you know, I mean, we're in no man's land, like I said. Could decide he wants to come back and test the previous day's value area. I don't know, right? Decide he wants to come back. We're obviously testing the plus QSD. What if he decides he wants to? I just don't know. It's too early in the session and I have nothing to lean on. So I don't know. Then the market goes, and this is where I'll be sitting down. Sometimes I'll write things down, or I used to a lot anyway. Hate to sound like a broken record, but I don't anymore. But yeah, usually. So maybe what time does the S&P open? 9.30 in New York, say like 10 a.m. You can update your hypo. What's going on? Anything new? Still imbalanced. But some good information here. Starting to really establish some sort of trend there. I don't like the word trend, but that's what it is. I can't remember exactly what it was. I think it was a normal trend. I'm starting to establish something. You can see why I was starting to get interested, because this early action gave me some confidence that this move back south that I didn't know could happen, didn't happen. So I was like, oh, buyers are in town. Okay, I might not have start to lean on, but buyers are in town. I think that's very positive. So I was like, all right, okay, that's something for me to take into consideration. So you can write that down. Still imbalanced, establishing normal trend and order flow. I can't remember if we had any sort of order flow clues. I think we did there, didn't we? There's a little bit. It's very subtle, very important, but very subtle. There's a little bit of absorption there. Okay, you can see we made a lower low in the order flow, higher low in the price. Okay, so there was absorption just after the open, maybe around 9.40, after 10 minutes. Guys, this is just so subtle clues, great clues the market's giving you. Then you've got to step back and accept, okay, you know what? All of this section here, as you can see, I didn't trade it. What can I do? I just got to sit here and congratulate, clap my hands and say, well done to the guys that bought RTH open. Great trade, you know, whatever. Sit back, very relaxed, you know, I'm here to make money. I'm not here to kind of just click my mouse, you know, I leave that to other people on Instagram or whatever. But here, this is a business, right? There's no reason for me to buy here. The market's clearly screaming higher. I said it there on Discord, TikTok. I don't know if it's TikTok, could be Twitter, I don't know. Could be Tom, Dick or Harry, who knows? But basically it's people who are very, very aggressive, right? At that stage and looking for any reason to buy, you know, buying very aggressively. Do I really think that's a good risk reward trade? I don't, so I didn't buy. And then I believe we were getting some heavy absorption in this area. And that is why I remember this distinctly thinking to myself, let me just widen that out a bit so it's a bit clearer for you guys to see. OK, I remember distinctly, there you go, can you see it's so clear, so clear. I'll highlight it to you with my pen so you can see it. So clear. There, and that, can you see that? I was watching this, I was sitting here looking at this and I was like, you know what, this ain't going down today. I just needed something to lean on and this was what I was waiting for all session long. I knew the highs of the previous day were here, you can see it there. The volume profile, high. Right, no coincidence, I took, probably it's there. OK, it was, yesterday's high. I felt like there was space, I was like, this market, this is going up. There's a couple of things, OK, guys, it was quite advanced in the sense that if you felt not confident to trade this day, it's perfectly fine. I think it's actually a good decision because there wasn't, obviously, clear stuff to lean on and it was a very punchy day. It was a very punchy day and obviously people don't like to pay high prices psychologically, I understand. There's a couple of things going on here. So over the years, I've noticed when the market gets to highs like this in a session and it's very aggressive, people love to fade it. OK, they love it, they love it. Human beings love to sell things that they perceive to be expensive, right, but what they don't take into account is it's expensive for a reason because everyone's happy to pay that price. I've seen it time and time again, OK, when the market does this and makes new highs and then absorption comes in. I mean, I didn't expect it to get this aggressive where we just obviously went up and had a massive short squeeze into the session. But what you will get is you will get this a lot where those people that try and fade the market, the market will get crushed. They will get crushed, basically, they will get crushed. That's why the absorption is happening because you're getting aggressive selling from people who are trying to fade the market. And obviously the big players, you know, I don't know if you know about the composition of the market, but crude is a lot worse. Crude is like maybe as much as 80 percent is run by 12 algo firms. S&P, I don't know exactly how much it is, but it's a few firms that control quite a big chunk of it, maybe 50, 60 percent, not as much as obviously 80, 90, because you do have a lot of retail interest in equity indices, obviously. But those guys, they will be watching this absorption. And that's what happened. And you can see the clear absorption going. Sorry, I think my pen is playing up a little bit. As you see, the clear absorption going on. And that's when I entered, took a little bit off at the highest because I wasn't sure, obviously, whether that was going to continue or not. Held a little bit with a fairly tight stop somewhere just below the lows and just let half my position kind of just run to the highest. See it time and time again, it's happening. But there was obviously quite a few factors going on there. There's obviously the establishment of the rhythm. There was the absorption. There was the fact that we had space to the highs. I didn't have a target. I had to improvise a little bit. Ideally, I would have had a composite target. I would have had something. We didn't have that, which is very difficult for me to find any target. Same on this day here. There wasn't the day before. I was getting quite aggressive with the lows. I was just playing the range because I didn't have anything clear in terms of the composite. But yeah, so that was pretty much why I took it. So rather than leaning on anything in particular, I was leaning on information. A little bit more advanced, but this will come in time. You'll notice it. You kind of get a feel for, all right, the market's trying to go up. Can I have anything here? Any sort of clues? And if you trade crude, I believe crude, I was just looking at some of the hypos that some of the guys posted in there. Crude was affected by ES on this type of day because it was so aggressive, the ES on this day. So there are algos basically like crude and e-mini. I can't remember what they're called. There are these, might be relative value. I can't remember the name of the algos, but they do. When there are times when the ES is obviously very, very aggressive, you'll see these algos hit both markets. So crude, I think was being influenced a little bit like this. I think one of the guys got hyper and it was really good hyper actually. I think it was very, very sensible to stay out of that market because it was being influenced a lot by what was going on here. So this was just one of those days, one of those days where it was just super aggressive, not a lot to lean on. Obviously you've got to improvise a little bit, but yeah, that's why I took the trade. Let me just see some of these questions here, guys. I mean, that's it for analysis, but I'm happy to obviously see if there's any questions. So on that big retracement, what did you make so confident to be so aggressive? Yeah, the order flow. Let me have a look at that. Yeah, it was order flow based. There was a lot of order flow here. So what it is, right, guys, you've got to be a little bit careful here because this is very deceiving. What it doesn't show you is how many contracts I've actually taken here. So this was a very, very small size. This was also a very, very small size. And it's a little bit, I'm hesitant to talk about it too much because it's very advanced. I was playing with my cost basis. So can you see, this wasn't like just some kamikaze shit where it's like, oh, I'm going to wait for it to come back. No, right. As soon as I kind of got comfortable in terms of how much positions I built, I did play with my cost basis. I improved it by taking stuff off here. Do you see, I was happy to take losses. This can be quite dangerous because some people, they just won't take some of their positions off. They'll wait for it to come back here, for example. We can talk about this maybe in future sessions because it's quite advanced. But what I'm doing here is I'm cleaning up my basis. So if I've got a poor entry and I realize if I've got very small size, but I'm so confident in position sizing in the market, then I'm happy to get aggressive here and take some off here. Because think about it, what's happening here? As I'm taking these contracts off, I still have higher targets. Think about what's happening. If you had a graph of what my cost basis was, my cost basis might start off here, high. As I start taking trades off, my cost basis falls. Okay. So I end up with a cost average much lower by doing it sensibly. Obviously, as I said, once I got the initial reaction in the market, I did improve my cost basis. Because obviously, I realized, right, even though the market comes back here, I don't know, is it going to come and test it again? So I'm happy to obviously take some of my contracts off. Even if I'm losing money, it's okay. So bear that in mind. Okay. I don't want you to think these are all, it's a little bit deceiving. I don't want you to think that these are all linear contract sizing. Okay. Very advanced. It's going to confuse a lot of people. So we can discuss that in the future. But in terms of the order flow, which is I think what the question was more, asking, yeah, the order flow was. For me, I'm quite clear in the sense that you've got to be careful. Okay. Even though it's negative, you've got to expect that advice. It is going to be negative. Because overnight, what has the market done? The market's just had a complete collapse overnight. Okay. But this is where your overnight session, you're kind of asking yourself, you see how we started here. Imagine we'd opened up here and just collapsed down to this area. Can you see we've collapsed into Nomads now? Whereas here, from this day, the overnight session, I believed, I believe, we collapsed right into it. Okay. Can you see a very different overnight sell-off to what this would have been like? We sold off into an area that I expect to be filled. So I'm kind of expecting the order flow to be negative. Okay. So from a negative, a lot of people ask me, they say, hey, should I only buy when the order flow is positive? Should I only sell when the order flow is negative? I wish that was the case. I'd be on a beach. I wouldn't be here working my backside off every day trying to make money out of the market. I'd be on a beach. No, it doesn't. I agree when it's around neutrality, obviously you want to be a little bit cautious because has the market positioned itself one way or the other? But when it's sold off this aggressively, so I'm talking a lot because I'm giving you a whole order flow perspective. Okay. Not just telling you there's some divergence or something. You've got to understand that. It's a picture I'm building in my head. Order flow, extremely negative. For a reason though, right? They, whoever these people are, and someone asked me about the composition of CLES, whoever the market makers are, the algo, HFTs, whoever, they're expecting this gap to be filled. They're doing it. Okay. So I don't mind if the order flow is negative. In fact, I think it's good that it's negative because if you think about it, the more negative we get, better for me because more trapped shorts, right? Who are going to push my position up when they need to get out. So first thing I want to make that clear, right? Don't worry that it's negative. I want it to be negative. The nice thing is I give you these levels, minus 10,000 for a reason. Minus 10,000 is obviously a cycle. I don't even like this word, but I know that a lot of algorithms do look at these deltas, like 10,000, 5,000, 2,500. How exactly, it can vary wildly, so don't worry too much, but it's nice for something to lean on. So I kind of know, okay, we've gone down to 10,000 on this day. That's kind of my area. We came into the session. We had this lower low. We didn't make a lower low in order flow. We held the composite twice, value-oriented algorithm. Holding, to me, was an obvious long. In this type of market, it's just experience. I just know one time out of 10, they're going to take that up. So I was happy to take profits. I'm playing the probability game. If it goes without me, so be it. But nine times out of 10, I know they're going to come and test the lows again. I do have to admit, this was a very premature exit. I don't always get it right. It was a little bit of a poor, sorry, it was a bit of a premature entry. Like I said, it's a very small size. I wanted to test it. You could argue, I could have got out, and if it's you, I would say, get out of that. I thought, oh, okay, maybe the order flow hasn't got very negative. It hasn't been a lot of aggression on this kind of move back. Maybe we are going to go now and go and push higher. So I did take a little bit of a position, because obviously I thought, let me just have some skin in the game. Fine. You know if you get out here, that's what you want to do. But I know what I'm going to add, and I know I'm going to get more aggressive down below. So for me, being more advanced, I don't really want to exit that position. I'm happy to just keep it on there, such small size. I can work the cost basis anyway. So for you, maybe you should exit it. If you get in there, get out. But to answer your question about order flow, I was fairly happy to start, add some small positions here, but get very aggressive in this area. Because you can see it yourself, okay? Look at the size, guys, of this board here. We're talking, you know, 15 points, right? How much has the order flow moved? Really not that much relative, speaking. It's very small. It's almost, I would say, flat. I know it's quite subtle, but it is there. If you look hard enough, the order flow clue is there. It's very, very small, the move in the order flow, relatively speaking, to how aggressive the previous sell-offs have been in order flow. Very aggressive order flow. Here it's not so. And also here, such an aggressive move down, virtually flat at the 10k level, right? We're almost here in price, back down to the previous lows. Order flow is nowhere near, right, the previous lows. To me, absolutely clear. Add to that, we're at a composite low as well, right? I know it's a lot to take in, but you'll get better at it during sessions. And kind of the same thing I did on the next move back down. But this time, I felt it was even more clear. Again, I kind of got a little bit more premature in some smaller size here, as I did here. But the reason I was quite happy to get quite aggressive here, and then again here, same as I did here, because this time I felt it was even clearer, okay? Relatively speaking, we tested pretty much the lows of the session and we weren't even testing the 10k mark, okay? That's why I got so aggressive. So yeah, it is what it is. I wouldn't obviously have done that on a day like this, because we're kind of in no man's land and even when we're going up, I'm not going to get so aggressive. These type of days, where we've had big sell-offs overnight into quite a decent nice balanced area, they happen once every two, three weeks, I was happy to get quite aggressive. Let me just see what else there was. I think KK was asking about speed, velocity of price. I think this is why it's good to get different opinions, right? Because I don't... See, I'm a bit more of a... How do I say it? Rough and ready, you can probably tell. Because I've gotten so much more experience, I kind of got a good feel for what I think the market thresholds are. If you guys are still in your first few years of order flow trading, I would say use things like the Dome and Footprint if you want, because someone talked about velocity there. And it's quite good when you look at the Dome, you can see the velocity. On a chart, it's harder for me to see velocity looking at cumulative delta. It's harder for me to see velocity, to see the microscopic order flow. I don't do it because, call me lazy if you want, but I just don't look at it. Because I like to give myself a little bit more room. I feel like if I'm watching the Footprint or something... Let me give you an example. If I was watching something like the Footprint, you see where I bought the market, right? And I can see that the market is getting very aggressive, right? Minus 600 in the delta, you can see here. Very little max delta, strong min delta. Obviously, the market's getting very aggressive. And as we move up, it's going to... The sellers are going to drive it higher, obviously, as they get out of the market. Part of the problem I have is sometimes, obviously, the market will form these pockets slightly lower, and I don't like to exit. I don't want to just exit and then wait for the next pocket and then get in again. It's my style, okay? I like to be a little bit more rough and ready, like I said, so it doesn't suit my style. That doesn't mean you should do what I do. If you want to look at things like velocity and look at, obviously, Footprint and see what microscopically... Oh, I reckon if we go below these sellers, I'm going to get out of my position, and you want to get in and out and be a little bit more subtle, then I am... That's fine. But don't forget, I'm trading so many contracts, and I've got a lot of tolerance, and I can change my contract sizes, and I can play with my cost basis, and I can do loads of things, okay? Sometimes I'm hesitant to even show that, but I like to be transparent. That's why I show you guys. Hey, this is what I've done the whole week. Look at it. It's open book, because I think it's important you see that. And it's important you see. Obviously, it's not always going to be perfect, but you can have different styles as well, and that's fine in terms of looking at stuff like that. Someone wants... I've noticed that the market, in touch with plus two deviation, and all of a sudden a drop. I mean, that's a very difficult question to answer. I think you need to be careful about having rules-based stuff like that, you know, where you've got... If I get this correctly, you're saying that when the market typically tests a 2SD, it can collapse, and it does tend to collapse. You've got to think about what type of market you have. So what I mean by that is, have you got a rotational market, for example? If you have a rotational market, you've got 2SD, then yeah, probability is on your side. Test a 2SD, you want it to collapse. If you've got an imbalanced market, and you've got the 2SD up here, I'll be very careful. I've even seen it where I think there'll be some days, I can't remember a perfect example right now, where the market will just be tagging it, just be touching it like that, bumping its head above it. It's kind of like what the market was doing on Friday, right? The market was just bumping its head against... That's the 2SD there. Maybe you've had the one point, I'm sorry, I don't have the other one, I should have... Maybe it was bumping its head against the 1.5, right? Something like that. That's fine. If anything, sometimes it's useful to use it the opposite way around, where you're in an imbalance, and you're like, well, where should I take my profit? Okay, I'm in an imbalance, that's 1.501, so I'm going to... My target's going to be the 2SD. Do you see what I mean? These pushes, these rotations are touching the 2SD, so if I get in here, I'll take it off at the 2SD. I want to look to fade it if you're in an imbalance, be very, very careful about that. I think I've said this before, and I've said it in the pro course, where you've got these range days, 2SD rhythm, look for it as you can trade it, where you've got the imbalance days. Obviously, be careful, right? Maybe don't fade it, see it on your hands. If you feel like fading it, and you're struggling, don't worry if you don't get a trade, wait till the next day, just don't fade it. I will be very, very careful. I'm not a big fan of fading the market when it goes much higher. I'm just not very good at it, if I'm honest with you. You kind of know what I'm good at. That's why it's good. You'll see when some of the other guys, if they do some hypos or chats or webinar in the future, you'll see maybe there'll be different styles, and they'll be much better at it than I am, and they'll be able to give you like a different take on it or whatever. That's pretty much it. Last couple of questions, guys, and then I'm going to wrap it up. But like I said, don't worry, we're going to do loads of these anyway in the future. Okay, give me a second. How come you didn't re-enter as there was acceptance of our previous data and more sellers being absorbed? Great question. I'm sorry if I pronounced your name so loud. Brilliant question. Yeah, I could have. I'm not going to sit here and give you a reason why I didn't. There is no reason why I didn't enter it. I think it was perfectly fine. What it is with me, guys, is my trading, I like to be quite consistent. And I'd suggest this to you guys as well. So it's an interesting point. The market has different speeds. You guys have noticed this. You know, I know we all like to be superhuman and think, hey, I'm going to trade overnight. I'm going to trade the open. I'm going to trade this. I want to trade whenever it moves. That's the brain wanting to obviously, I think it's in our DNA, isn't it? Obviously, I don't know what you call it. Evolution has obviously built us in a way that we're going to do whatever. The survival thing, isn't it? You want to just kind of be the best at everything. So it's kind of that survival instinct that we've got built in us. I recognised this early on in my career. I think it was a very good thing for me, which is that I find the overnight session, and this is relevant to your question about why didn't I get in later. I find the overnight session very slow. It doesn't suit me. I've got students who are amazing at trading the overnight session, much better than me. They can trade the overnight session. And you know what it is? I think it's because, and I think you guys will agree with me. Again, like I said, everything I think, it needs to be logical. To me, it's logical that the market sessions are obviously a different pace. So as human beings, we adjust to certain things and getting used to doing those things every day. You go to a job, you do the things every day at a certain pace. Overnight sessions, if you're watching it all the time, you're kind of used to it. You're in that rhythm of the market being very slow, and you're probably more patient than I am. And you're going to be like, yeah, okay, I know, take time to complete this rotation or whatever it is I'm waiting for, this pullback. Coming to RTH, things just start going crazy. It's very difficult to adjust all of a sudden. You're sitting there and you're like, you're used to waiting all these hours. Suddenly the market does something in one minute, you're not used to it. I see people struggle with this all the time. Same thing happens after a certain time, maybe about 11, 12 o'clock in crude, crude, oh my God, crude just goes dead. S&P is pretty good, but it reverts back to being sometimes a little bit more slow, and you'll see these pockets of ranges forming in New York. Lunchtime, when obviously all the traders come back after lunch, having had their sandwiches or whatever you get in Wall Street or Chicago, wherever they trade. And yeah, the market, the pace starts to change again, and I don't like it because I'm not, you know, I'm in that RTH zone, I like to be quick, quick, quick moves. And then obviously later on, things happen and they can happen, they're just a little bit. So I tend not to watch it too much. So if you look at the time here, I think it was around 11.30, 12 o'clock, where I typically step away from the market. But yeah, I think later in the session, there probably was one more opportunity to get invites. I think that's it guys. So, like I said, this session is recorded, we're going to do loads of them, hopefully you think it was useful and not just me waffling on. And yeah, I'll send out a recording which you can obviously look at in your leisure. Look forward to next week, see how it evolves, you know, scheduling and stuff, doing stuff and what exactly, how it all works out with the community. But hopefully that was useful, flavour of things to come and we'll catch up soon. Have a great day and obviously good luck if you're supporting Italy, best of luck. I'm obviously an England fan, but whatever, best team will win and all of that. And good luck, yeah. And enjoy the Euros if you're watching them, otherwise have a nice rest of the weekend.