Hello traders, welcome to stage 3, which is the order flow section. As with every stage, as we've been doing, let's just have a quick look and take stock of where we are, what we've learnt so far, what's left to come and where this section really is as part of your institutional approach to your day. You know, you're going to know anyway because obviously I've spoken many times about it that order flow is obviously a very small part of your sort of prep for the day, and you know, that should be obvious now why that is because now that you've started taking this bird's eye view, you've been on the depth of market. You can see the depth of market is incredibly microscopic and all the things that are happening on the depth of market, and at the end of the day, what is the depth of market? It's just the raw data, and what is the footprint? What is the cumulative delta? Well, as you'll see through the section, it's just different forms of the time and sales of the raw data anyway. So the point is, you know, all of that stuff, the order flow, whilst it's incredibly useful, it's more useful the way that we will approach the market, i.e. building a hypothesis for the day, looking at this big holistic bird's eye view. It's really more just for fine tuning, you know, and I've kind of hinted at this in the entry versus exit section that I did in stage two, and you know, I've said that, unfortunately, and you can probably see it now. The focus of most traders is in completely the wrong place. You know, whilst this is, obviously, it's important, you know, if you can get this and this right, the 90%, I'd take that any day over, you know, not, obviously, sloppy is a strong word, but, you know, not paying much attention to entries. I'd much rather have, obviously, my context and my hypothesis strong, and yet maybe be a bit loose with entries, and you know, I think that's the perfect combination because, you know, I've spoke about it many times, the market is by no means going to give you the perfect opportunity, especially at that microscopic level. You can really see, and you've seen it yourself, human emotions are really reflected, exacerbated, magnified at that sort of level of detail because, obviously, there's less chance for macro factors to affect that. So the things that are going to be affecting the market at an incredibly microscopic level are things like, obviously, systematic trading and human emotion and so on and so forth. You know, the drivers behind those type of trades at that level of detail are not necessarily going to be things that are logical to you, especially not to the human mind, so that's why it's very difficult for us to have an edge there. Talked about this to death in Stage 1, Auction Market Theory, obviously talked about it a lot in Stage 2, and therefore, my point of all of this is that it's important, but you've got to understand we're in the process, the order flows, you know. I know incredibly successful traders who don't really pay much attention to order flow at all, but when it comes to context and obviously building the developing context on the day and combining it with the, you know, larger context, these guys are incredible discretionary traders. Now, obviously, I've traded on the depth of market and I know incredibly successful depth of market traders maybe a few years ago, but more and more now, as I've said. This sort of end of the spectrum, you know, here, it's much more, let's be honest, machines now with the way technology is, you know, the edge is, there is no edge if I'm honest with you, for human beings at a discretionary level, you know, at the end of the day, things like absorption and aggression and all these things which we discussed in the Dome section, those things are being spotted by machines in milliseconds, you know, you just don't have the anti-coordination, it's getting more and more advanced, your edge is really, you've got a massive edge here, this and this area. If you can, you know, really build a strong hypothesis for the day, and I've talked about this a lot in stage two, you can afford to kind of be, again, sloppy is not the right word, but you can afford to be very relaxed about entry and exit and really let the context do your hypothesis, let that do the work for you. And ultimately, you know, if you've got confidence in your hypothesis for the day, at the end of the day, you've got to show that, right? You've got to show that when the market's not always going to give you this perfect pullback to get into or this perfect entry to execute your hypothesis, sometimes you've just got to go with it. And I talked about this in the entry versus exit, and I thought it was important that obviously I highlighted that again at the start of this section, that look, I've talked incredible detail about order flow, right? I've done a whole foundation course on it, which was necessary because you needed to see how is the volume profile built, basically, from scratch, and it's giving you an incredible understanding. How is the VWAP built? What is the VWAP? It's based on market orders. You needed to know the market orders. You've got to be really careful with order flow that you recognize it for what it is, that it is just fine tuning. And I guess the final thing I'll say is, the reason I say this is because, guys, you're going to spot absorption, spoofing to some extent, fake orders in terms of pending orders, bids, offer supply side games, and you're going to see it everywhere on a chart, right? And if that's all you look for, you know, you're going to drive yourself crazy. You're not going to really understand the market. You've got to understand it's everywhere because machines are, you know, futures market, like 80, 85% of the market is algorithms, so you're going to see this happening everywhere, you know, for you to really succeed in this, master this stuff, and just use the order flow as an aid to get you into your hypothesis. That's all I'm saying. So what I would suggest anyway is maybe, you know, if you kind of agree with me, the thing is there's no right or wrong, okay? You can do the cumulative delta section first, but my suggestion is do the footprint first because what it is, you're going to see that as time has gone on, I've pretty much started using cumulative delta exclusively as my order flow tool. There's many reasons for that. I'll go on into the next slide and I'll explain it, but, you know, as my sort of understanding of cumulative delta has improved over the years and as my focus has gone more and more over the years onto context and, you know, making sure my hypothesis is solid, I've moved away really from order flow and it's not...and when I say order flow, I just mean at a microscopic level, okay? I mean this. I mean footprint, depth of market, cumulative delta to some extent, but I just mean this whole section because don't forget, this is order flow. This is order flow. You know, this, all of this stuff, right, it's all order flow, obviously apart from fundamentals. This is order flow at its most core. All I'm saying is order flow at a microscopic level, because think about it, it's not what I'm doing anymore. My edge isn't just sitting there staring at a dome all day. You know, if that's what you want to do, do it, but I'm going to tell you that the edge has gone, right? It's just not there. You see people talking about depth of market and staring at it and honestly, it does make me sad to still see people clinging onto that. It's not there. The technology, the amount of algorithms in the market in terms of algorithmic volume, high frequency trading, et cetera, et cetera, it's huge now, okay? And the technology is obviously getting faster. Guys, hedge funds are paying billions just to be closer to the exchange, obviously to get latency and so on and so forth. You know, you're not going to compete in that space. I'm not saying don't look at it, just recognize it for what it is. Like I keep saying, use it as the thing that gets you into this, you know? I'd much rather you were like A plus at this and maybe D at this, this kind of thing. You can afford to, like I said, not be perfect with it, you know? I do have a big advantage because obviously I traded the depth of market for a long time, so I understand order flow very well, but honestly, one of the reasons I use Cumulative Delta exclusively now is because I've realized there's only so many things you can look at. As you'll see, because I want you to do this section after ... Let me just have a look at the list of things that I've put together for you. So obviously the ideal place you're going to be doing this is after task four, 2.6, the dynamic versus static value part two. So you've started building some basic hypos. I want you to introduce Cumulative Delta into that, and what you'll see when you go on to do all the VWAPs, the multiple timeframe VWAPs, is that there's so many things you're looking at, you know? You want to chuck footprint on there, you want to chuck X, Y, Z. It's just too many things, and at one point you have to say, all right, how can I look at the order flow, Cumulative Delta, without having to necessarily take up so much space and me having to focus on it all the time? You'll see, Cumulative Delta allows you to see what's going on in the footprint, to see what's going on in the dome, but in a little box on your chart. It's unbelievable. I love this thing. And don't get me wrong, I've got the footprint on the side. I'm just saying that more and more, I'm finding myself really ... Sometimes it's minimized and I won't even look at it, and I'll even forget that it was even there. Because like I said, if I've got my 90% solid, I'm using Cumulative Delta to fine tune, as you're going to see. Do I really need any more? No. Sometimes it's nice. Don't get me wrong, I've used, obviously, depth of market and footprint extensively with this stuff. I'm just saying, I've evolved as a trader, I've got better, I've recognized what kind of makes sense, and I'm always trying to sort of fine tune my efficiency in terms of what data I'm taking in. And it's just become more and more apparent over the years that I'm pretty much getting the same information on Cumulative Delta, that I'm getting on a footprint, that I'm getting on the depth of market. So it's more and more, I'm just kind of weaning myself off that stuff and I'm looking at Cumulative Delta. But what it is, is I want you to do the footprint first, and I do apologize, it's called Module Six, right? Because what happened is, obviously, there's five modules in the foundation course, and as you'll see, I talk about it, I built Module Six first, the footprint, because initially, obviously, as you know, I was building the Pro course and I was busy, and a lot of people had obviously bought the foundation course, and I'd sold it as a, obviously, pre-completion. So to be fair to people, I thought, all right, let me give them something like the footprint to get started with. But now the foundation, sorry, now the Pro course is complete, it kind of makes sense that let me actually do things in the right order. So context first. So as you know, we've pretty much covered everything here. We've done, let's just have a look, we've done Ultra Market Theory, we've covered Acceptance and Rhythm, we've done Market Profile, Volume Profile, we've looked at VWAP. After a day, we've looked at Volume Profile and VWAP, obviously, I want you to now come to Order Flow, learn about all the Order Flow stuff. So like I said, to repeat, sorry to sound like a broken record, but the ideal sort of order that I want you to do this in is, obviously, Stage One, you've already done. Stage Two, you've probably done a big amount of it. And to repeat, I want you doing the Order Flow now after 2.5, because now you've started building hypos, right? You've seen sort of ideas about how to enter and exit, it now makes sense to introduce Order Flow into that entry and exit process, because that's what it is, right? You saw me talk about in the How I Enter and Exit, as I've said, it just makes total sense for you to combine it with this. But coming back to the footprint point, apologies, bit of a long-winded way of explaining this, but obviously, I want you to understand my reasoning behind the ordering, is what I want you to do is do the footprint, okay? Even though I'm slowly weaning myself off here, I don't use it so much anymore. I'm even happy for you to not use it, but what it is, is just like the depth of market, you needed to look at it to understand the other Order Flow components, because it's literally the foundation of it, right? You can see that. Obviously, you've seen what volume profile builds are, you needed to see it. In the same way, I want you to look at footprint, so you understand delta, because what you'll notice is in the footprint, I talk about delta a lot, I've built myself a lot of sort of delta information in the footprint table. So look, do the footprint, it'll be a few hours, then come back, do this, I know I've put cumulative delta at the start, the first two bits of it, 3.1, 3.2. Come back to this, because once you've done 3.1, 3.2, I then want you to carry on with 2.5, and continue to do the hypo exercises, and essentially just adding Order Flow. Look, that probably sounds confusing, but honestly, it isn't. It's incredibly clear, and a logical path, so let me write this down for you. So stage one, which is pretty much all this stuff, we've done it, tick in the box. Stage two, which is a lot of the intraday stuff, so you've done what, 2.1, and I've got it here in front of me, the intro to VWAP, 2.2, 2.3, the VWAP practical stuff. So we've done all of that, rhythm, market condition, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, so you've done all the dynamic and static value you should have done by now, task four, so that's building, the basic hypos. Do you remember we've got CVA, DVA, line in the sand, either side. So at this stage, you've done up to 2.5, so we've done all of that. Now what I want you to do is stage three. So stop at 2.5, come to stage three, okay, this stage, and now what I want you to do is I want you to do 3.3 all the way down to the end, so the end of the footprint. I believe there's going to be some examples towards the end. Obviously, I don't know exactly how many examples this will have by the time I've completely finished. I'll try and add a few, but as it stands, there is obviously some live examples, so keep working your way down all the footprint section. Once you've done that, it's going to give you a great understanding of delta, okay, and that means you would have covered footprint, and we've done the dome, right? Can you see? You've almost done everything now. All you've then got left to do, finish the footprint section, like I said, it perfectly makes sense when you think of it in terms of the order. Then come back to this video, 3.1, 3.2, okay, so you're going to do cumulative delta, and this is now going to form task five, okay? Get it? So you've done task four here, you're coming in, I want you to finish footprint, just get delta, whatever. You don't necessarily just use the footprint, just understand it, because what it is, is I don't want people to think, oh, why has he done all this footprint stuff if he's trying to wean himself off it? It's not that. Guys, you've got to understand, as a trader, you've got to adapt, okay? You've got to adapt to the evolution of the market, and I keep saying it. At the end of the day, I used to be a depth of market trader. I recognized technology is here, that's not where the edge is, and in fact, my results are a million times better now than they ever were on the depth of market. I was incredibly consistent, but now it's taken it to another level, because now I've got this unbelievable understanding of the market from every perception of value, okay? So it's not a bad thing, I've just evolved with it. Footprint, I was using it extensively, it's not that I've never used it, used it extensively, but I've just recognized, hang on, I've got all the information I need in one place, let me stop duplicating things and let me just become a more efficient trader. That's what happens as you obviously develop, you start to make your processes more and more efficient, okay? So if that's all it is, however, it's so important you look at the footprint, because as I said, in the same way that Dome helps you understand all of the things we looked at in the pro course, the footprint is going to help you understand cumulative delta, and this will become clear when you do the footprint, okay? So in the same way the foundation, I guess the easiest way to put it is the same way the foundation course has helped you, you see, you wouldn't have 5% of the understanding of what you're doing on VWAP and volume and market profile had you not done the foundation course. In the same way that the foundation is the very building blocks of stage one and stage two, the footprint is the building block of cumulative delta, all right? So hopefully that makes sense, that's why I want you to do that. Come back to this bit, do 3.1, 3.2, cumulative delta, we're going to do task five. All task five is, task four, right, developing hypos and do exactly the same stuff, but use cumulative delta, okay? So I hope that's clear, so basically you can stop this video now if you haven't done the footprint section, do the footprint section, and then come back to this exact point, and we're going to go straight into cumulative delta on the next slide. Thank you very much. Okay, guys, so we're going to talk about cumulative delta, and so you should have been building hypos now, CVA, DVA, when I say that should make total sense to you, line in the sand, you finish footprint, and now you're doing cumulative delta. So let's get on and look at cumulative delta, and what it is is, look, I don't want to overcomplicate it, if I'd never done the foundation with you, then I would have spent hours on this, but look, you're all order flow experts now, you spent months on the depth of market, you've obviously looked at the footprint, you understand delta very well, it's obviously just, as I said in the section many times, it's just buy market orders versus sell market orders, it's just the difference, right? All cumulative delta is, right, now, what it is is, if you think of what is happening on a depth of market or even on a footprint, right, let's look at it in one direction, let's say that the market's going up here in, you know, this is crude oil, but it could be anything, you've watched the depth of market now probably 100 times, would you agree? What makes the market go up? Market orders eating into pending orders, right, so let's just make up some numbers, let's just say 100 printed here, 100 printed here, 100 printed here, 100 printed here and, you know, extreme examples, but nothing printed on this side, and it can happen, right, but obviously just to show the point, nothing printed here, okay, in any of these columns and then maybe even another 100 printed here, would you agree, what's happened to the price? It's moved up, right, now, if you were to plot this, how would it look? So let's have a look at this, price over time, again, we're going to exaggerate the point, but it doesn't matter, right, imagine this took an hour, whatever, right, 30 minutes, whatever you feel comfortable with, it doesn't matter, the principle is the same, I'm just going to say, let's imagine that this took, you know, an hour, as I said, to go from 2509 to 2514, okay, so it's basically gone up like that, would you agree, that's what's happened, what's happened to the delta? Delta and time, now, let's remind ourselves, all delta is very, very simple, buy market orders inside columns, the difference between that and sell market orders, right, so obviously if the delta is positive, buyers are in control, this is why I suggested going to the footprint first, this will be so obvious to you now, we're just taking the difference, right, so what is actually happening if this was, you know, in hundred contract increments, would you agree that we've basically, the delta is going, what, plus 100, then cumulative delta is just adding the deltas, right, so that's another plus 100, 100 plus 100 is what, 200, plus 300, plus 400, plus 500, would you agree, it's taken that many contracts to move the market up, so delta is moving with the market, right, that's what happens, you see it, when the price moves up, market orders are printing up, price moves down, market orders are printing down, that's all that's happening, right, so this can be 1, 200, 300, 400, 500, right, and obviously we can see the price here, you know, like 2508 to whatever that is, 2513, you know, it's basically going up, I'm not going to mark the price, and here, would you agree, all we've done is delta's just gone up, look, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, you've seen this a million times on the depth of market, okay, so delta's going up, and this is cumulative delta, because obviously if we had 100, 100, it would just be a flat line, it doesn't make any sense, you're adding, obviously, the amount of, you know, positive delta that you're building up as the market moves up, right, pretty straightforward, so the delta's moving up, it makes sense, what pushes price up, market orders, so it makes sense, the more market orders you've got, the more price goes up, and guys, let's look at it the other way, you know, just very briefly, and just so I can squeeze it in, apologies, I'm going to make it very small, price moves down, right, price moves down, like this, in this section, and this time, what, you've seen it, market orders are hitting, the bid side, they're hitting bids, going down, being sold, market's being sold, again, so you know, here we've got 1, 2, 3, 4, 500, you know, in theory, we have the same amount, or should have a similar effect, and again, it's just going to build up, isn't it, so 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, and how would this look over time, if it happened over this, very slowly, over an hour, price would just be floating down as time moved on, right, that's all the depth of market is, you've seen it, the depth of market is the chart, you know, you know this, I've mentioned to you, you can, you get guys just watching depth of market and not a chart, it's basically just telling you what's on a chart anyway, the only thing I'm saying is, you know, delta is showing us the amount of market orders it's taken to move the market, right, and generally, as you've seen it, when market orders are printing up, the price moves up, when market orders are printing down, price moves down, very straightforward, so again here, we've got this time, it's minus though, isn't it, because he's selling off, we've got negative market orders, short market orders, minus 100, minus 200, minus 300, minus 400, minus 500, it's cumulative, it's just adding these up, right, so this time, delta does exactly the same thing, kind of makes sense, isn't it, market orders are driving the price down, market orders are aggressively going down, pretty straightforward, right, so now imagine we could, do you remember I said to you, one of the reasons I've just stopped looking at all this stuff is because I said, oh, I exclusively, pretty much exclusively started using cumulative delta, because basically, forget I've even mentioned cumulative delta to you, imagine I said to you, guys, wouldn't it be wonderful if I could have this information and how it is affecting price on my chart, you'd be thinking, yeah, that's wonderful, Envy, wouldn't have to look at this thing, wouldn't even need to look at the footprint, wouldn't need to stare at this whole thing, taking up space, moving up and down, obviously giving lots of information, that would be wonderful, where can I get that, cumulative delta, all right, guys, so next screen, you're gonna see it, I'm basically gonna show you this at the bottom of my chart, that's all it is, okay, so hopefully that made sense, we've covered everything here, yeah, we've covered that, we've covered that, let's go on to the next slide and show you this, basically, this bit and this bit, the delta, and then right beneath my price chart, okay, make sense when I show it to you, see you in a sec, okay, so here you go, so you would have seen this on the template I gave you anyway, honestly, guys, this thing is incredible, I mean, it's basically the depth of market in a little box at the bottom of your chart, it's the footprint, it's everything, it's basically all the information at the bottom of my chart, you can now understand why it's the order flow tool of my choice, I'm gonna show you how to read absorption and all the things that we look at on footprint and so on and so forth, I'm gonna show you how to look at it on here, and actually, it's got major advantages as well over looking at the footprint and the depth of market, which I'm gonna show you, and a lot of it comes down to this swing to swing versus micro, but firstly, let's just consolidate our learning and repeat what we said on the last slide, which hopefully you understood, because obviously now, you know, you get the depth of market, so presumably that would have been straightforward for you to understand, can you see it's exactly what I've just described a moment ago, what did I have, I had the price, I had time, which you have here, so you can see the time going along, right, and look guys, this is hours, okay, it's hours, what's the price doing here, price is going up, what are market orders doing, going up, really straightforward, what's the price doing here, going down, what's market orders doing, going down, aggressive move down, aggressive negative market orders, if you watch the depth of market or you watch the footprint, all that would be happening is the delta would be going down, you'd have aggressive negative market orders, right, hitting the bid, that's all it is, it's that delta, it's the difference between orders hitting the sell side and orders hitting the buy side, when the market's moving down aggressively, obviously it's going to be market orders hitting bids, going down, when the market's moving up aggressively, obviously it's going to be what, orders, market orders lifting the offer or hitting the offer or whatever you want to call it, as we go up, that's it right guys, so that's basically all the delta is, okay, cumulative delta is letting me see all the information, but just in my opinion, just the most advantageous way for a human being, okay, I'll keep talking about this but it's so important you understand that, you know, we are competing against the machines, how can we get an edge, well a machine is very good at a very microscopic level, you know, what we are very good at is being able to interpret data at a more discretionary level but where we have a little bit more time, right, we have to know our strengths and weaknesses, this isn't patronizing anyone, it's logical, you know, I'm trying to help you take advantage of, you know, this ability you have to think incredibly logically when you have a little bit of time to put things together and the reason I say this, right, I'm not trying to lecture anyone, I'm going to back it up obviously with facts and that is, I talk about this swing to swing, so basically my point is I can look at what is happening to delta over this period, okay, now think of this period in terms of time, I'm talking about approximately just after 10, right, to about 1.30 guys, so, you know, you're talking a several hour period, you know, what is that, it's over three hours basically, you're talking about over three hour period and imagine looking at this on a depth of market, do you really want to be staring at that thing for three hours to gauge the same sort of information, I can literally instantly just look at that and say, yep, oh, okay, the market orders were aggressively sold off and actually you'll have delta numbers here, okay, so it might be minus 5,000, you know, might be minus 2,500 or whatever, so I can say we're net negative 5,000 contracts, right, that's a strong move down or it isn't and so on and so forth and then you can start to see little nuances like I'm going to show you, look over this period which again is 1.30 to, you know, about three o'clock, hour and a half guys, I can see the market was going down in price but market orders didn't go negative, hang on, something has changed, for me to spot this on a depth of market over, you know, a sort of two hour period, no, it's not going to happen, right, the amount of sort of like capacity in terms of my mental concentration I'll have to put into just being able to glance once and say, oh, something's not right here, can you see now why I'm using this exclusively because I can see what is going on, on the footprint, on the depth of market, just at a glance and where, at the bottom of my screen, guys, I absolutely love this thing, it's brilliant because it does allow me to see sort of what is going on in terms of buyers and sellers convictions and so on and so forth over large periods of times, that's why I say swing to swing, you know, from this swing to this swing, for me to capture that information even on a footprint is a lot of data, you know, you've seen it on the ring codes, there's a lot of data, here I can literally eyeball it and see, no, any problems in the order flow, is the market aggressive when the price is aggressive, yes, it is, all right, things are normal, price is moving up, are market orders driving it, are buyers convinced it's going to, yeah, it is, look, market's moving up, same thing as we went down, over a period of time, I can sit back, relax over a couple of hours and think, all right, yeah, okay, you know, sellers over the past couple of hours are driving this market down and, you know, we talked about this a lot, that's where our edge is as human beings, is to really use this amazing ability we have to interpret data and be discretionary with it and make decisions and build an edge over other participants, including algorithms in the market and say, based on my judgment and my experience of having seen this several hundred thousand times, a hundred times or whatever, this doesn't quite look right to me, okay, do you see, this is where you start to develop edge again, it's a great edge you can develop and also, I'll put here micro because you can start to look at sort of micro order flow, so, you know, let's have a look here, so, you can start to look at this, can you see this swing down versus this swing down, that's micro, okay, so, you can start to see there and there, do we have any problems in the order flow, no, we don't, we move down, we move down, so, sellers drove that, you know, drove that, you know, they were happy to drive that down, you know, here we've got, look at this and this, there's a problem here, because look, the market didn't break this low, but here the order flow did break the low, we'll talk a little bit more about this, but my point is, this is on a very micro level, you know, over maybe half an hour, here it's a bit longer because it's the ETH, remember this is RTH, so, that's why in time that does represent a longer period of time, but here you can see it's virtually like 10 minutes, 20 minutes, this bit and you can compare it to that bit, right, so, that's swing to swing, you know, swing to swing, this is basically just at a micro level where you can start to over 20 minutes without having to sit and stare at a footprint or sit and stare at a, footprint is obviously better because it does record the historical market orders, we've discussed that, you've obviously just come back off the footprint section, you've seen it and it can be handy, don't get me wrong, for me, rather than looking at that and it takes up a lot of space on my screen and, or watching the depth of market for 20 minutes, even at a microscopic level, I can just say, ah, okay, that looks okay to me, yep, sellers are, you know, driving this market lower, even at a micro level, what about a swing to swing level over the last few hours, ah, that looks okay, is there any discrepancy, is there any problems? All right, so, hopefully that makes sense that, you know, we covered all of this in the last slide, that this is telling you exactly the same information and what I'm going to do is, I'm going to really hammer that point home now, we're going to look at, you know, different types of, I hate the word divergences, I'm going to be honest with you, because of the way it's used in retail, but this is true order flow divergence and what I mean by that is absorption, you know, things you're used to seeing on your depth of market, so, yeah, on that note, let me quickly, sort of, move on, because I use that word divergence and I quickly want to, sort of, show you that when I say divergence, I mean it in a completely different way to what you're, you've ever been used to seeing, it's not in the technical indicator sense at all, in fact, it's in, I've talked about this a lot, the fabric of the market, market orders, market order divergence versus the price, okay, so it's very much depth of market divergence, right, so true divergence in its purest form, so let's go on and have a look at that in the next slide, okay, so we said we're going to talk about, obviously, spotting absorption, I'm going to show you, you can spot it on the cumulative delta fairly, pretty easily, in my opinion, you know, like I said, my understanding of cumulative deltas, you know, rapidly improved over the past few years, because I've been watching it so much and I actually think it's better than, you know, the other order flow tools in terms of spotting absorption, don't get me wrong, at a microscopic level, obviously, the dome is the key, but I'm talking about, you know, we're not looking second by second, you know, we're not sitting here staring at the thing second by second, we want something to help us get into our hypothesis and our context is being built at composite levels, huge amounts of market orders, it makes sense for us to be sitting there staring, looking for absorption at one time, it just makes no sense, okay, you know this, you know, I don't need to explain this to you and cumulative delta is much more aligned as I'm going to show you and the best way to do that is, let's have a think about, you know, and I've shown you examples already, but let's think about what exactly is absorption, right, so let's just pick a price point, doesn't matter, let's say 25.10, right, it's crude oil, but it doesn't matter what it could be and would you agree, let's say if, you know, you've seen someone sitting on the offer with, let's say they've got a thousand contracts, right, thousand contracts, contracts and let's make that a thousand and then they're constantly adding to it, right, so someone prints a thousand, clears them out, price doesn't move, why is that, guy cancels it and adds another thousand, okay, someone prints another, so the volume profile here, if you ignore this, the volume profile is obviously got a thousand, then we print another thousand, right, and this guy just cancelled and then he puts another thousand, so that goes up to two thousand and this continues, it keeps happening, you've seen this, I said you're experts on the depth of market now, constantly being cleared out, one thousand, two thousand, three thousand, four thousand, you know, the offer shows a thousand but every time you print a thousand market orders, another thousand appear, another thousand, this happens five times, so then you, as you know, you're going to build up five thousand contracts at one price level, what is, we already talked about the delta, right, so the price is doing what, would you agree, time and price, what's the price doing, it's flat, right, it's just stuck at 25.10, time is passing, you saw this on the treasury market, time is passing and the price is just flat, it's not going anywhere, what's the delta doing, when we're seeing absorption, think about this, what is the cumulative delta doing, cumulative because it's 1000 plus 1000 is 2000 plus 1000 is 3000 plus 1000, 4000 plus 1000 is 5000, what is the cumulative delta doing, it's going up, right, you know this 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, I'm not going to put the numbers, can you see price is flat, cumulative delta, market orders are printing, they're going high, guys, absorption, okay, that's what you see, cumulative delta and price is flat, when you have absorption, other way, same thing, let's do it this way, so price is here, forget about this volume profile here, let's say someone's sitting on the bid, sorry, they've got, let me do that again, they've got 1000, right, someone's sitting on the bid, you do what, you hit the bid and say, fine, you know what, I'll clear you out, 1000 contracts, but hang on a minute, as soon as that goes, another 1000 appear, and you think, hang on, all right, let me try again, so you do another 1000, so here you've got now 2000, market orders printed here, as soon as you do that, what, another 1000 appear out of nowhere at the same price, absorption, right, so you're building up, you're slamming the bid with like 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, right, so you've hit 5000 contracts into the bid, and the price just hasn't moved, classic absorption, on the downside, right, short side, what's happened to the price, same as this, hasn't moved, okay, and what's happening to the cumulative delta, what's happening to the cumulative delta, it's actually minus, right, fine, not on the profile, it will obviously just show us plus 5000, I beg your pardon, but on the delta, it's minus, isn't it, it's minus 5000, right, because don't forget, what is delta, buying minus selling, what we're doing here is selling, so it's negative one, negative two, negative three, negative four, negative five, what's happening to the price, it's stuck, someone is doing what, just absorbing, they're happy to sit there, so the price isn't moving, but the delta is going down, right, it's going negative over time, people are selling market orders, so obviously over time, cumulative delta is going to go down, can you see divergence, this is what I mean by divergence, okay, cumulative delta divergence, which is absorption, okay, look, you might take the time, maybe you get it straight away, maybe you do, but look, might take you a few goes to get used to this, don't worry, looking, hey, I'm going to get you looking at it 100 times on a chart anyway, you'll know it like the back of your hand, do the practice, okay, we'll have a look at a few examples, obviously, look, I don't, you know, I don't need to go through 100 examples with you, if I show you, you know, just a handful, and then you go on the chart, this is why I said do this as part of task four, which is, you know, 2.5, the entry and exit, and then obviously the next bit was task four, once you finish task four, add this in, right, it's the perfect place to add this in, because all those entries you're taking around that first hypo, you can now bring in absorption and stuff, and I'm going to show you that, let's actually look at this on a chart, okay, so this is a chart, this shows the first one we're going to look at is the downside example, the one we literally just did, guys, look, this is why this thing is incredible, because for me to spot, you know, this is swing to swing, right, here to here, for me to spot this divergence or this absorption, I beg your pardon, it is divergence, but again, that word has been tarnished, and, you know, I mean, it doesn't really, like, annoy me, because I don't really get annoyed, but it, like, does sadden me that the word divergence has been tarnished, really, this is true divergence, right, so I'm going to use it, I like to use the word, but use it in this sense, please, if you can, you know, look at it in terms of the fabric of the divergence, not any sort of, you know, oscillator or one of these things, it's more to do with true market orders versus what is the driver of the market, market orders, so market orders can diverge, obviously, with price, when you see things like absorption, the point is, the thing is, I love this thing, and look, I haven't got the time slots, but it's obvious, look, that's RTH, nine o'clock, you're about a couple of hours, you're talking over two, three hours in the session, imagine trying to spot this on a depth of market over three hours, you're just not going to be able to do it, this thing is so powerful, I can see straight away, right, okay, we came down, we sold off in the morning, right, so the delta, obviously, was down, market orders drove us down, fine, can't see any problems here, then as we drove down again, what happened, hang on, so this could be, I'm just going to make up any price, say 2801, guys, look, price has barely moved, what's happened to the delta, look, huge market orders, didn't we just say that, 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 at what, one price, what's the delta doing, going negative, look, classic absorption, buyers are doing what, saying thank you very much, thank you very much, yep, I'll take that, I'll take that, buyers are absorbing, and look what happens, bang, the market goes up, you've seen it on the depth of market a hundred times, now you can see it on the chart, it's exactly the same thing, you're absorbing, you're absorbing, look at the aggression, you can actually see the bars are really thick and red, that is, you know, significant numbers of people trying to sell at what, one price level, okay, once you get your head around it, you'll be like, oh my god, that's obvious, price is not moving down, but contracts are still hitting the bid, hitting the bid, hitting the bid, thousands, so what's happening, people are getting trapped, sellers are getting trapped, what happens when sellers get trapped and they realise it, and price starts moving against them, oh, oops, I'm in trouble, I've got to get out of here, bang, and the move happens the other way, obviously also the person absorbing is probably going to get aggressive as well, and you know, so there's going to be all those multiple factors, which we've talked about in the footprint and obviously in the dome section, and then I just want to show you one the other way, okay, so here is exactly the same thing happening, but the other way, okay, so if you think about it, look what's happening here, the market is moving down, and then what do we have, we have barely, you know, between sort of this area, if you think about it, that area of price, right, let me just draw this out, sorry, let me do this properly, so this, sorry, pen, can you see this area of price, it's pretty static, isn't it, sort of this region here, price has not gone anywhere, right, that area, look what has happened here, can you see that, people are doing what, hitting the offer, hitting the offer, keep hitting the offer, and where's price going, one area, so that's 2801, that might be like 2810 or something, okay, and don't worry, we'll do a few examples of these, but the point is, has the price really gone anywhere here, no, maybe gone up a couple of ticks, but look what Dell has done here, it's got so aggressive, and actually it's been the whole thing, isn't it, you can see buyers are being sort of incredibly absorbed in this whole move, you know, obviously it's not always going to be, and I showed you this, and that's why I actually wanted to show you this example, because I don't want you to get obsessed with single price levels, all right, you know, this is the point, when you start to get into more advanced depth of market, as I showed you in the pound, it can take place, and it typically does include, over multiple prices, guys, it just comes with experience, you're going to have to just accept that, you know, no one's going to sit there and absorb at one price level, you know, it happens in treasuries, but in most markets, it's too thin, you're not going to be able to sit there and absorb, you're going to get killed, it's going to be too obvious that you're doing it, so people do like to spread out their absorption, you can see in this little tiny area, this guy is absorbing the seller on the offer side, he's just absorbing huge amounts, right, in that little, little region, and if you look at it here, what's happening there, all it is, is 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, you know, hitting the offer, keep hitting the offer, smacking the offer, trying to buy, trying to buy, trying to buy, look at that, how many thousands of contracts, what have these buyers been able to do to price, nothing, classic absorption, what's happened, buyers got trapped, boom, look at that, okay, pretty simple stuff, guys, that's absorption, we're going to look at it one more way, I'm going to show you some stop outs, all right, where the price is not generally being, again, driven by market orders necessarily, and, you know, price is drifting, but there is no market orders basically driving it, and that's a classic sign of stop outs, we're going to talk about in the next slide. Okay, and this is the final one that I want to show you, and this is my favourite one, I see this all the time, I use this extensively, okay, I actually prefer this to absorption, this is another, I keep saying it, but a big reason why I've moved away from using some of the other microscopic tools for fine tuning to really using cumulative delta, because this is very, very difficult to spot on any of the other tools, on here, just because of the nature of it, like I said, you can see things over a period of time, this is much easier to spot, in fact, I think it's virtually impossible to spot this on some of the other tools except at a very microscopic level, so what I mean by that is, let's have a look at this, so for example, here, right, the market is, you know, before we said that, what happens, we're at, when it's absorption, right, the price is sticky, it sticks at a level, and what happens, the cumulative delta, it rises, right, because what, people are trying to buy into the offer, and the guys that are selling it, they're just absorbing, they're absorbing, they're absorbing, and boom, price collapses, look what's happened here, complete opposite, basically, the price, if you see here, the price has just taken out, right, classic stop run, has taken out the top, look what's happened to delta, guys, look at the, look at the delta, right, in, sorry, let's, let me point this out, it's so clear, look at the delta in, this move up, delta moves up, guys, look at this, from here to here, huge move up in the market, look at that, there's no one buying, right, can you see that, normally when you get long sustained moves, you've seen this, what happens, aggression, huge aggression, so you know, if this wasn't really going to be a big move, the delta would have come down, and the delta would have just been like that, right, huge amounts of people would have come and bought it, and anyone trapped on the other side would also have exited, so you tend to see delta just follow price, you know, we talked about this in the first slide, when we introduced cumulative delta, that what's happening on the depth of market, market orders are obviously being filled, and that's what's driving price, so normally 90% of the time, market moves up, delta moves up, market moves down, delta moves down, market orders buy, price goes up, market orders sell, price goes down, but hang on, what's going on here, why have we had such a huge move up, and hardly anyone buying, guys, can you see, it's stop outs, basically, typically it's going to be stop outs, because why do I say that, well, again, like I said, what forms the basis, the composition of huge moves when you tend to get a reversal, right, so the market moves down, and then it shifts gears, and suddenly turns around, what is that, that's obviously people that are trapped, that's people getting stopped, that's new buyers coming in, it's basically a whole bunch of people, but generally, majoritively, obviously, it's going to be people that are buying the market, right, and that's why it moves up so much, it has a sustained move, logical, so if you have a move up, and hardly anyone's interested in it, who else is it going to be, it's going to be that small percentage of people that probably had their stops above here, and they're being stopped out, okay, so it's classic, guys, and I love this, I see it all the time, you know, and if you want to get short, let's say you've got, you know, your CVA, so your value area high of your CVA here, right, and you know, I tell you, obviously, draw them in, like have this little zonal area here, imagine you had that there, you're in a rotational environment, you know, what's your rhythm, 1SD, and that happens, and you see the order flow is anemic, guys, do you see now why I want you to introduce this into your post-task 4 and make it, obviously, the next task is because that is going to give you huge confidence to do what, execute, all right, now, finally, let's look at it, this is swing to swing, you're not going to see this on a depth of market, you might be saying, hang on, Envy, surely we can see stopouts on a depth of market, of course you can, but the problem is, think about what you're seeing on a depth of market, you'll be seeing some sort of market order activity there that may be reflective of, you know, a quick move away or whatever it's going to be, but it's going to be very microscopic, guys, I'm talking about, you know, and again, apologies, I haven't got the time, but that's okay, it's obvious, we're talking several hours, how are you going to compare this to this, you're not going to be able to do it the way you can in a few minutes after, this thing is incredibly powerful, it's not the holy grail, you've got to remember what it is, have this on your wall, 70%, 20%, this is 5%, but it's something, it helps you execute your hypothesis, it gives you some, I don't like the word confirmation, but it adds to your hypothesis, doesn't it, if you have a strong, and that's 90% context or contextual read or thesis or whatever you want to call it that, this market's going down, you see this happen, hardly anyone's involved there, boom, you know that's a stopout, bang, get in, you see, all it's doing is just increasing your sort of chances of success from maybe, you know, let's not attach rigid numbers to this, I'm just kind of giving you a sort of just to prove the point, you know, let's say that your chance of success is 70%, add this in and it's just gone up to 75%, you see on every percentage point counts, basically, it's one point, and this is incredibly powerful, hopefully you can see that swing to swing, now let's look at it on a micro level, but the other way, look at that, okay, something odd has happened here, right, the market's moved down in price, but what's happened to the delta, we haven't had the equivalent amount, you would have expected delta to be somewhere around here, do you agree, to equate to price, price broke its low, why haven't more selling contracts come in, something's obviously gone wrong, you know, some stop outs or whatever, there's just no interest in this move down, clearly, it's like a sort of liquidity hunt, a stop out, whatever, and what happened, we went the other way, so look, I've given you the full arsenal, there's one more thing I want to show you, and then I'll obviously show you some examples on the charts, okay, so the last thing I wanted to talk to you about on cumulative delta is something called being delta neutral, and it just adds more weight to the reason why, really, more and more, I'm only looking at cumulative delta in terms of, obviously, the 5%, the fine tuning, and that is because you won't be able to spot this, this being delta neutral on your depth of market, you won't be able to spot it the way that I'm going to show you, you won't be able to spot it on a footprint, there's no way you can spot it, and in fact, you can check this for yourself, go and google it, you won't see it anywhere, right, you won't see this, this is an understanding that I've developed myself, so look, at the end of the day, we talked about the housekeeping stuff before, I'd really appreciate, initially, I was even hesitant to even talk about this, but because it's not out there, and I don't want it to be plastered all over forums, and whatever, I've got my own reasons for it, I just don't want it necessarily out, I'm happy for people to use it, it's not any secret tool or indicator or whatever, I just prefer it wasn't necessarily out there in the public, because like I said, it is proprietary to me, not necessarily in a sort of I'm going to make millions out of it way, but it's just something that I've developed personally, and you know, I just don't want it out there, basically, all over the internet, plastered everywhere, and oh look, Envy's come up with this, and I just, I just don't want it, basically, I've got no interest with being associated with some sort of way of looking at things, that's all it is, so you know, I really appreciate it, I'm happy to share it with you, but you know, if we just have an understanding that, you know, you're just going to share it with friends or whatever, like I said before, if you feel that, you know, they're going to be professional about it, and not plaster it everywhere, yeah, it's just that I don't want, you know, funnily enough, I don't want something out there to be associated with me, because then you get all this nonsense, people saying, oh, you know, you've come up with this methodology, and you know, you've come up with some system, and it's not that at all, literally, it's just my own understanding of cumulative delta, and you're going to see it makes a lot of sense, and actually, I'm surprised no one else is using, and in fact, there probably are people out there, hedge funds, whatever, looking at this, because it just makes so much sense to me, but I've never seen it out there, so you know, that's why I'd appreciate if you don't, obviously, put it on the forums and stuff, but basically, getting on to the point, getting on with it, is delta neutral is what? So at the start of the ETH session, you can use RTH as well, but ETH session, which is what, about 1800, obviously, at the start of the session, when the new session begins, maintenance period, or whatever, the halting period is over, new session begins, how many contracts have traded? Zero, so where's cumulative delta? Zero, okay, so you've got your sort of zero line, right, if the market's moving up, and I see this time and time again, okay, it won't exactly work like this, but more often than not, so would you agree, cumulative delta's going up, price is going up, right, so this is our price chart, this is time, price, it's going up, I'm sorry, let's get rid of that, okay, and that's our delta, essentially, now, what will happen a lot, right, is firstly, delta's going to be above zero, because the market's moving up, what does that mean? The market is long, the inventory is long, okay, I've put here inventory, then what I have noticed a lot is the market will pull back, or whatever, a little pullback, guys, this will, it's uncanny how it does it, it will pull back to close-ish to zero, and then it will get on its way, okay, and you'll see price go up, now, why it does that, I can only guess, okay, my guess is that it's washing the weak hands, basically, the market's got long of itself, it's heavily long delta, we know this, what is delta? It's just, in an up move, it's just long market orders, obviously, the market has, sort of, accumulated so many long positions, what's the inventory? Long, there's no one left to buy this thing, so what does, and the market does this all the time, it cleans out the market, it cleans out the inventory, it, you know, resets things, it, obviously, gets rid of all the weak hands, and it, to get more buyers in, I see it time and time again, I mean, obviously, you see it on the depth of market, but here, it's just amazing to see it, relative to neutral, neutral inventory, zero inventory, what is the market doing? So, it's too long of itself, there's obviously a lot of inventory, and the market wants to achieve, you know, a target up there, it could be a composite, or whatever it is, to do that, it needs more buyers, right? How are you going to get more buyers? What's it going to do? It's going to flush the system, isn't it? It's going to flush all of these buyers, need to be flushed out, so the market's going to drive us back down to what? And it's uncanny how it either goes to zero, or it stays above zero, my point is that, it goes through this sort of inventory flushing process, where it's closing out, it's forcing some of these weak hands, who have got long, and, you know, they're not willing to stay the course, they're weak, basically, they don't have that conviction, and they're just getting themselves washed out, and obviously stocking out, or whatever it is, and it will stay positive, because the inventory's positive, and then you'll get the big move, why? Because all of these guys, they'll see it turn around, they'll be like, oh, shouldn't I have got out of that position? Bang, I want to get in. You'll also get new participants coming in, who have seen this washing process take place. We've talked about this a lot in, without me getting into this particular level of detail, in the, I think it was 2.5, forgive me if I'm wrong, but, entry versus exit. Do you remember I said I'm looking for clues? I'm always looking for clues. I'm balancing what? Information risk versus price risk, right? This is incredible information that I'm getting here, almost for free, I'm getting this information, because it's happened, you know, I might have my pilot position on whatever. My point is that some sort of battle or process has taken place between buyers and sellers, that's reflected in this inventory position. I can see, oh, in the morning, or overnight, the market's got long, the inventory's long, the positioning is long, and what's the net delta, the net positioning is long? Oh, they've washed out those early longs, and now they're ready to go. Okay, they've cleaned out the weak hands, they've gone through this resetting or flushing process, they've picked up any institutional orders that may be, you know, at lower prices waiting. Let's be honest, we're never going to know the exact reasons. My point is that I've noticed this happening so much that, obviously, I can't give you exact statistics, but it's reflected in my trading, I'm using this a lot. And this is the final thing that I wanted to go through with you. So, you know, be aware of this sort of neutral position, where the market is neither long or short. And in fact, if you see market conditions that are quite balanced, right, a great way of confirming that the market is in balance is you will see their delta value above and below zero. Why? Because market orders are balanced, right? It makes so much sense for the market to be doing this. If I've got strong conviction up, I will always, I'm not, I don't use it as an indicator, I'm not saying, for example, again, remember, I keep coming back to this 70% and 20% and then 5%, okay? It's just giving me that extra little bit of confidence in my thesis. I'm going to be honest with you, if everything lines up here and everything lines up and I think I've got 90% nailed, you know, we're slightly below, I'm going to take the trade. I'm just saying if there's, you know, typically everything isn't going to line up exactly the way you want it to, and you're looking for clues, contextual little clues throughout the day, or even if we go slightly negative delta, and then we go above positive, what's that telling me? That's telling me, hang on, the market inventory tried to get negative or short, failed. Do you remember I said failures can tell you just as much as things that are happening in your favor. It's just incredible. I love this thing where it's going above zero. It just gives me confidence. There's loads of little ways of using this. We'll have a look at a few examples. Anyway, so that's enough on neutral. Let me show you this on a chart. So what I plan to do is let's just have a few examples of all the different bits and bobs we've looked at, you know, the absorption, the stop outs, and then the neutral positioning and how we play relative to that. Then I want you to take this, add it to task four. You've already got cumulative delta, start looking at this. When you're getting into your positions, I want you to start looking at, you know, what's the order flow, the five percent, basically, and how can I use that to get me in or support or tell me, actually, maybe now's not the right time to press my thesis. All right, guys, so let's get on the charts.