Okay traders, so here we are, we're basically at the task section where I'm going to obviously just go through a few examples with you, obviously will help you just clarify some of the learning we did in the cumulative delta learning section that we've just come off the back of. Now, firstly, I just want to address this, right? I don't want anyone to feel like, oh, why isn't he showing footprints out there in the public? Why has he got us to do footprints? Why is he showing depth of market, but then he's just using this thing at the bottom of his chart? What you've got to realize is that I'm actually trying to help you by making your life infinitely easier. If you want to use the footprint, you're more than welcome to, I'm more than happy to help you. You can show me what you're looking at and I'm happy to guide you. If you want to use the depth of market, by all means, stare at the depth of market. I'm not going to do that because I've explained in detail and in depth why, but it's so logical and it's so like clear in terms of evolution of efficiency. Why looking at this makes so much sense and is actually reflective of the fact that I'm actually trying to help you a lot. So I hope you can see that. It's not that when I show footprints out in the public and stuff that I'm trying to say, this is what I'm using, but I'm not using it. It's not that at all. In fact, it's the complete opposite. I am actually using that stuff, but obviously I'm just reading it in a format that is much more powerful and much more conducive, as I said, to developing edge as a discretionary trader. The best way to think about it is really, they're all interlinked. Just because I might show a footprint or I might say, yep, footprint is basically what you need to see behind your candle. Really, that is what I'm doing. I'm just looking at it in a different format. So if you think about it, it's, I've got you on the depth of market, right? You have to do the depth of market to understand what? Footprint. You have to do footprint to understand what? Delta. You saw the footprint section, understanding trapped buyers and sellers, delta. You have to do it. That's the point. It's a natural progression, right? To look at cumulative delta. And actually, if you think about it, the depth of market is actually driving what? Everything. Profile, depth of market is driving obviously VWAP, right? What is behind it all? It's the depth of market. So at the end of the day, you have to, have to, have to understand the depth of market to not the degree that obviously I did, because obviously I was using it to generate income, but understand it to the point where you know that profile is built up at what? The ground level using depth of market. VWAP is built up using what? Market orders at the ground level. Absolutely have to understand that. You absolutely have to understand what's going on in the footprint to understand cumulative delta. So all that's happened is this is the back engine. Do you see it's the back engine. You have to understand it. It's just that we keep it on the back burner. We just keep it there. Don't necessarily need to be staring at it. And in these three items, on the whole, obviously, you know, at the core level, obviously, like I said, there might be bits and bobs, high, low, all that type of stuff that you can add in later on, overnight high, overnight low, basic stuff, which can add in as you progress in your career. But the actual sort of foundation of everything you look at is here. But where, where did this all start? Here. So that's my point. Don't think that it's, oh, why do we even, why? I thought I'd be looking at the footprint. Why am I, why did I even bother looking at the footprint if I'm now looking at cumulative delta? No. If you're thinking that way, then you've missed it. The point is you needed to, you need to understand the footprint. You need to understand the depth of market. Otherwise, you're not going to get this stuff. Okay. So that's all it is. I'm looking at this in this format. That's all you're doing. So hopefully that's clear and you can see that. And I hope people can see how much I'm actually trying to help you and avoid you wasting time staring at these things when you don't need to. When you can see this information now from a more bird's eye view, and we talked about it before, it's going to make it easier for you to compete against certain market participants like algorithms and, you know, very sort of microscopic type traders, or again, HFTs and things that we talked about that are just going to have too much speed for you to compete against. So, you know, just taking that small step back, actually a small and a large step back, many, many different perceptions so you can start to use your strengths. But look, we've said that to death. My main point was this. I just wanted you to visualize this, that actually using this, you are using the footprint. You are using the depth of market. Using profile, you are using the depth of market. Using VWAP, you are using the depth of market. And I showed you this anyway. If you think back to, I believe it was stage one, and we slowly started stripping out the profile from the depth of market and doing what? Putting it on chart. And I showed you what is the chart? The chart is the depth of market. It's just got more market orders. This is my point. Cumulative delta what? It is the footprint. It is the depth of market. It's just more of a bird's eye view. All right. So I think you've got that now. Let's move on. So what I've done is, and I hope you find this useful, is I was thinking, I was looking back at the last section and I thought, why don't I just do a table, nice table for everyone? Because I know they might get a little bit forget about, because you're not used to seeing this, right? Obviously, I've seen this a million times. So sometimes, I apologize, I might just take it for granted that, oh, there's absorption in cumulative delta because obviously it has this discrepancy with price. Oh, there's some stop outs. Oh, there, everything's normal. So I apologize. I may be going at pace. So I realize that would be helpful for you, I hope, to have a table, okay? Keep it in front of you. And then eventually, after a month or whatever, two months, there's no limit. I don't care if it takes you a year. Eventually, you'll be able to just see it and just know, okay, there's absorption going on here. But in the meantime, I hope you find this useful. And initially, I thought about higher highs in price and higher lows in delta. And I thought, you know what? That's the way I see it described sometimes, bearish divergence in cumulative delta. It's just way overcomplicated. As I said, keep it basic, all right? As long as you give it wiggle room, understand it just at a simple level, believe me, that's enough. So what do I mean by that? So the way that I've written it out, right, it's quite different to how you might see delta divergences written out. So basically, what is going on when the way that I've done it is I've done price versus cumulative delta. So like I said, you can print this out. All we're looking at is price versus delta, right? And we've been through this in the last section, but I just want to show you what I mean in this table. So when price and cumulative delta are moving the same, right, so price goes up, delta goes up. Price goes down, delta goes down, all right? What is that? It's just normal, right? What can we infer from that? Everything's normal. Market orders are aggressive in one direction, price is aggressive in one direction. Nothing for us to worry about if we're long and the market is obviously moving up and delta is also moving up, everything's all right, right? It's just normal. So we expect 90% of the time. Then the next condition where something is odd is basically absorption, right? So what happens? When you see this and you've got this printout, just remember, it's just, it really isn't complicated, okay? Don't get yourself tied up in knots with higher lows, higher highs and diverge, don't. All you've got to think is, look, if delta is ahead of price or I'll put here price is lagging the delta, then we've got absorption, right? So if price is, for example, going up and it comes down and then goes up, but delta just goes completely crazy, like, you know, obviously I've exaggerated here, but delta moves up more than the price does, that's absorption. And same for down, you know, price goes down, but delta goes down more. So the price is lagging the delta, that's absorption, all right? That's all you've got to remember. So if the price is going, you know, down like this, but the delta is going down huge amount, that's absorption, right? We've explained this obviously in the last section. And then just the opposite, really, if price is, you know, much stronger than the delta, so price is really going up high and the delta is just really pathetic, that's more stopouts. There's not participation in the move, right? So it's probably more likely to be, as I said, people just getting stopped out and you really don't have much, you know, you can see here the price has just gone crazy and delta hasn't. And then the same thing on the way down could just be stopouts before moving back up again. And therefore you will just see delta kind of do not very much. Can you see that? Delta is just kind of lagging. So price is ahead, as in price is moving more than delta. And what that's likely to be is just some stops because the market's not interested, for example, in going down. So you don't have the participation. The only volume there is really people getting stopped out. So hopefully this is useful. And then finally, we can just think a little bit about what I said about the, you know, delta being neutral. So look, you know, we've said it before in the last section, when it's at zero, the CD, cumulative delta. I prefer if I'm long, obviously the market to be long. I want people to be long if I'm long. It's really as simple as that. So if we're above, then the market is, inventory is long, it's net long. If we're obviously below, so this would be minus, you know, it's net short. I prefer that. The caveat to that is, and I put it here, when we overstretched, right. So, you know, I'm going to show you this now. We might be like long 10,000, 15,000, right, net contracts. That's a huge amount to be long. I don't mind going short in those circumstances because obviously it's overstretched. All right. Or like I said, if we're sort of, you know, at zero and then we come down and then we go above and then we fail, and then I think, all right, the inventory is changing short and I want to get short. We'll look at that, but you know, you've got to kind of just over time, just observe it and it will become obvious to you. Now that I've pointed out this, this sort of neutral element, it will become obvious to you over, you know, as you practice it more and more and you see what the significance is, right. And obviously over the coming weeks and months, I'll try and point out some examples and include them separate to the course if I can. And I'm going to be honest with you. This is really one of the main things I do look at, you know, and the reason for that is because if you notice my entry and exit section, you've seen, I don't, on a VWAP chart, so on my volume chart, you know, whether it be 2, 3,000 or 5, 6, 7,000 volume on the ES or 2, 3,000 on the CL, you've seen, I've got those high load bars. I'm not really interested in microscopic order flow. And why is that? Because it's just 5%, right. You've got to take this thing with a pinch of salt. You know, I'd much rather that you just didn't get it. You just, I just can't understand order flow NV, but this, I can nail it. Guys, you can absolutely be fine as long as you can do this bit, right? Where you're going to have problems is you don't understand the narrative. You don't understand what the market is trying to achieve. You're going to have big problems, right? Because believe me, all of this stuff, absorption, stop outs, it's going on everywhere. If that's what your focus is on, you're going to drive yourself, you know, bananas. Literally, you're going to drive yourself crazy if that's all you look at. Or even if that's what you place heavy emphasis on. Because you're going to stop yourself taking trades that are perfectly good. Think about it, right? And I'll kind of cover this and hopefully I'll mention this later on anyway. But think about it. What is cumulative delta? It's just the order flow on the day, right? Now imagine you've got a big investor who's pushing size. And you know, this is going to be a terrible drawing, but he's doing this over days, right? So, you know, he sees value and when he's buying dips, you know, at the end of the day, what if that's the start of your day? Do you see your delta is going to be starting at a zero there, right? It's going to start becoming negative. It's going to do funny things, basically, that are more relevant to the day you're in. And it's going to put you off wanting to get into your narrative. Do you see this is your 70% and to some extent the 20%. This little cumulative delta stuff is so, you know, you've got to, this is my point, you've got to know the big picture. If I'm looking and I see, you know, much more sort of powerful investors in terms of order flow and how much they're throwing at the market, they're more interested in big moves. So they're going to be coming in to the market when they think it's cheap. And at the end of the day, if I think that's an attractive proposition for them and my cumulative delta is just telling me something different, guys, I am going to ignore it. Okay. I'll tell you quite bluntly, I couldn't care less. What is telling me if this is like pretty much solid and it's telling me this market's going to go up because at the end of the day, the opportunity to participate in this is going to outweigh the risk that I'm wrong because of cumulative delta. All right. I can always get out of the market. I can always get back in. I can, you know, I can, I'd rather go with the narrative and that this stuff is completely wrong and fine, whatever. I'll get stopped out and then I can always get back in if this stuff starts to align again. Do you see what I mean? The worst thing you can do though is be so focused on the order flow that you think, nope, there's some absorption going on or there's some stop outs going on and therefore I can't get long here because the delta is telling me, nope, not to get long here. You're going to miss the move. All right. Can you see the opportunity cost of you missing that move? You're going to miss, you know, this potentially huge piece of order flow that, you know, a big hedge fund or a, um, you know, a big fund out there, asset manager, whoever, or a group of them, it's more likely to obviously be a group of investors that are coming in and they see real value in the market and they're going to push this, you know, big move. You know, the risk of you being wrong in order flow, right? It's not just cumulative delta. I'm talking about microscopic order flow and you know, forgive me, I keep saying order flow. When I talk about the triangle, I do call this order flow, but you know, let's technically be a hundred percent real here. This is order flow. This is, uh, intraday, right? The intraday stuff is, or the day developing value area, whatever you want to call it. This is order flow, right? They're all order flow. I'm talking more about microscopic order flow, okay? Clearly this order flow is the underpinnings of all of this stuff, to be technically correct, but what I'm talking about is obviously the microscopic order flow, right? So hopefully that's clear. Sorry, I had to, had to, had to keep ramming that home because I know some people get so obsessed with this stuff and look, I was one of them. I'm a dome guy, right? A depth of market guy. For me, this used to hold me back a lot until obviously I got more confident and then I just noticed, wow, do you know what? I'm good at developing hypothesis for the day and actually, if my hypothesis is right, it's going to nine times out of 10 save me anyway from, as I said, my entries, whatever. You know what? My boss always used to say, he's like, do you know what? If you want to be long, just take the damn trade. See where it takes you, you know? So let the market give you feedback, get in, and you know, at the end of the day, you're paying for information, all right? I've talked about this, you know, price risk, information risk, and really that works on a much broader scale, all right? At the end of the day, I don't care. If I get in too early, whatever, I'm confident in my thesis and I guess, you know, taken out or whatever, I have to exit because I don't like something, doesn't matter to me. I've actually got information. I've got information that, oh, the market's not ready. I had to pay for that information. Of course, you know, nothing in life is free, so I don't mind. It's a fair exchange between me and the market. Fine. So, you know, all I'm saying is learn this stuff. It's incredibly important, but, you know, just be careful how much sort of emphasis you put on it and, you know, what you'll notice is over time as you, as I'm obviously give you more examples, once we've introduced other VWAPs and you see me, my more holistic trading style, many of you would have seen that already, obviously on the Discord channel, if you go back to history and you'll see, I'm obviously bringing different elements in. More and more, what I find is that I do like to use, obviously, the order flow, the 5%, but it's more in managing my trade rather than the actual entry. So, you know, for example, I like to look at the swing to swing over several hours and more than, you know, the entries, as I've said, I'm pretty relaxed. I'll get in the market if I like the trade, I'll just take the trade, I'll get in and then it's things like this, you know, if we start to make higher highs in price, but Delta's lagging, then I'll start thinking, all right, might have some scale out targets up here, but actually let me scale a bit early because, and in fact, that's a terrible tool. So what I might be thinking is, let's say I'm long, we're talking over several hours, right? Market makes a new high, okay, and Delta does what? Just lags, just doesn't. You see, Delta doesn't make a new high, but the market does. Starts getting me thinking, all right, maybe, you know, this thing doesn't have any more legs to take me to my scale target, ultimate target, whatever it is. So I will be scaling. I'm going to be taking obviously some risk off the table. I might take all the risk off the table, I don't know. It depends. A lot of the times you'll realize why this is an experience thing and it's, once you get the experience, you look back and think, oh, it's so obvious why I needed screen time because it's little, little things like, let's say this higher high happened very close to my target and the Delta was lagging. I'm so close to my target, I might as well take the whole thing off. Do you see what I mean? Risk reward is very dynamic. Don't let anyone tell you this garbage that, you know, oh, that's your target and that's what the target should be. That's nonsense. You know, you're allowed to change your mind and the market will reward you for making logical decisions. So you're approaching, you know, this hard target and as I said, you start to see something wrong in the order flow at this stage. Here, you might as well come out of the trade, right? Do you see the difference between if it happens a little bit further away, right? You might make a different decision because you think, all right, let me take 50, 60, 70% off and actually still quite a fair distance to go and maybe this will resolve itself. Let me wait, let me see, do the buyers drop off or do they actually resolve itself, right? Same thing for absorption, okay? And what I will tell you is I do prefer to, I do like to, I rely more on sort of weak participation. This is weak participation, yeah? If you think about it, because what's it, weak participation, what's exactly, what is happening here? Price is going up strongly. Are buyers participating? No, it's ahead of the delta. You know, the delta is just pretty anemic, whereas obviously the price is shooting it. There's not participation. That normally does have me more concerned than if I've got absorption. So the other, so let's have a look at what would happen. And I'm talking in the up move. Obviously it works, vice versa. Let's say price is going up. Same example. Last time we breached the highs, but we haven't breached the highs. But this time delta does breach the highs. Can you see? That is absorption. Again, it's experience. Please never take my word for anything. Watch for this and learn it for yourself. I often find this resolves itself more than, you know, where there's a lack of participation. This typically does tend to resolve itself. Because don't forget, this isn't absorption on a depth of market. This is absorption over a long period of time. It could be a few hours, right? And it's a huge amount of contracts. Whoever is basically pushing this market, right, more than likely is being my experience, they're not going to give up, okay? They will eventually succeed in pushing this thing through. They're not going to give up. Because you're talking about much larger size than what you see on a microscopic basis on a depth of market. On a depth of market, people might be pushing, pushing, pushing, pushing, someone absorbing. I'll forget it. I'll give up. But this is going on typically over several hours. That guy who's pushing this market against the absorption, typically, my experience, don't take my word for it. He's not going to give up. Look out for that. And you'll see, as you gain experience over the next few months and years, you'll notice it yourself. I'm just telling you now, this is useful information for you because you can make a note of it in your journal, your contextual diary, you know, as you're watching the market every half hour, hour, whatever, just make a note of it. What's happening? Oh, I spotted absorption, and actually the market just carried on anyway. Do you see what I mean? So with stuff like this, if I'm here and I see this big absorption coming in, I probably will scale, but I just won't be so aggressive with my scaling as if I saw a lack of participation and so on and so forth. All right, so hopefully that helps. What we're going to do now is we're going to get on the charts, and I'm just going to literally, I'm going to fly through the charts and just, rather than being sort of cherry picking and just showing you absorption examples, just showing you, obviously, the stop out, lack of participation examples, showing you some sort of neutral inventory style examples. What I've decided to do is I'm just going to go through a few days of the market, and let's just see what we spot. Like I said, and then I might just do a little bit of, oh, okay, this is what I see here, this is what I see it as, and it gives you some reference points. And then this task, what I want you to do is I just want you to do the last task, exactly the same task, I believe it was, I've got it in front of me, task four, right, where you did the CVA, DVA. I just want you to do exactly the same thing with this task, just do it for a couple of weeks, three weeks, four weeks, whatever, you know, I'll let you decide. You're getting into the stage now where you're quite comfortable with your own pace and that you're going at. Obviously, you know, my preference is you take it slower, but at the end of the day, we're all adults, we kind of adjust to our own pace and, you know, if you find that you went too far ahead later on, you can always come back. So, look, the pace thing, I obviously made it clear that I do want you to take as long as you can, and it will pay dividends in the future, but by all means, figure it out what works for you, because obviously some people will get more covered in a short time period and all that stuff, now that I've shown you the market replay and stuff, but combine this now, put this into your little, you know, I said at the bottom, just write it down, every kind of hour, what's going on, or if you're using the replay and you want to fast forward, fine, just make a note of it. That's why I've got this table in front of me, just make a note. Oh, is this order flow normal? Am I spotting absorption here? Is it sort of lack of participation, stop outs? Okay, in fact, what I'll do is when you do this, I probably will in the printout put here lack of participation, right, but it is really, it's the market kind of just washing itself out, it's just washing guys out, basically, that's what it's doing. So there's a lack of participation in the move, but it's just kind of flushing itself, you know, and I talked about this, the weak hands and stuff like that, so that's typically what's going on here, there's a lack of participation in the move, it's obviously just those weak hands that didn't have enough conviction to hold on, and then they got out. Right, let's get on the charts, guys. Okay, so here you can see, basically, I've got the crude oil market, I'm going to do the market replay, same way that I did in task four, but obviously now introduced the cumulative delta, but one thing that I'll need you to do, right, because I'm not sure, I think this, it saves the sort of drawings, obviously, within your own system, so I'll need you to do this. Anyway, it's good practice for you, and it's fairly straightforward. So you can see here, I've got the lines, let's just get rid of these. So if you have the zero, you can keep it, but let's just erase it, right, so I can show you how to do this. So what it is, as I told you, I look at neutral, right, but I also like to look at 2,500 contracts, net, long or short, 5,000, 10,000, 15,000. Guys, no holy grail, I don't care if you use 14,000 instead of 15,000, I don't care, right, if you use 11,000 or 9,000. I've just found over many years, these tend to be quite good benchmarks, and I'll put it this way, I just know that, and it's, look, again, I keep saying it, order flow is such a, half the time I'm ignoring this stuff anyway, if my hypothesis is, obviously, lined up nicely, and the reason I'm saying that, because what I'm about to say is going to make you think, oh, we've got gold dust information from Envy. Obviously, I know a lot of people in this industry, I know that a lot of people are looking at 2,500, 5,000, 10,000, 15,000, and that's not because it has some magical properties, it's because it's a round number, it's easier, you know, it just kind of makes sense to be looking at 2,500. It gives you a good approximation, it also gives you some benchmarks, as you see, to be able to spot the absorption, but the caveat to that is, just because I'm telling you this, don't think you've got some top secret information, you haven't, okay? It's just that a lot of people are looking at it, so to me, it just makes sense for me to kind of have those as benchmarks for nothing more than, it's better to have 2,500 than it is to have 2,475. Do you see what I mean? It's just a nice round, that's all that it is, all right? Don't read too much into it. Like I said, I just know that it's obviously quite a popular number for people to look at in their Delta, so what you need to do anyway is horizontal line, so tools, click on horizontal line. You can set a shortcut for this, but I hardly use this horizontal line, so I'm not going to bother, but if you want to, you can set a shortcut for it. Click it once, and then put it on the bottom here, do you see? And then just go close to zero, right click, chart drawing properties, okay? You can set this, again, please don't do what I do, just because I do it. For me, I've said neutral is incredibly important for me, so I like to draw it, I like to even put a wacky color on it, pink. I can't remember the exact color I've got on my main chart, but I believe it is. It's a strong pink or red or something, so let's just go for that, okay? That's good enough for now, and I have it quite thick, as you can see, okay? Now, what you need to do is, what will happen is if you accidentally put your mouse here, and do you see it moves around? It can move around, so I lock it, all right? So what I do is go back to chart drawing properties, and can you see here, lock, click on lock, okay? Then you go to labels, all right? And let's see, put the value as zero, okay? All right, so there's your zero line, and actually, if you really want, I do do this, actually. I like to have the price showing, so you can press this price, okay? Now, do you see it came underneath? I actually want it to be in line with the line, so what I do is I go chart drawing properties, okay, labels. Can you see here, vertical align, put that to center, okay? Can you see that the zero is there, right in the center, and now I can't move this. It's stuck there. Perfect, that's what I want, okay? Let's just open this out a little bit, make it easier for us, put the other ones in. So like I said, the ones I'm looking at are 2,500, so all you do is copy and move drawing, okay? Put it near 2,500, and don't worry, you can set this there, 2,500, okay? I don't want it as thick as the zero, all right? So I usually change this color, obviously. Of course, put any color you want, it really doesn't matter, okay? 2,500, then copy and move drawing. It's already locked, because obviously, we're just copying the same, in fact, I beg your pardon, I'll take that back. Chart drawing properties, just lock it, okay? Make sure it's at 2,500 and lock it. So this, 5,000, yeah, and lock it, okay? 10,000, copy and move drawing, just make sure you lock them, okay? So chart drawing properties, 10,000, and then lock. Okay, so they all should be locked, you can't move them, do you see I tried to move it? Oh, that one, it's not locked, so lock that, yep, 2,500. All right, so these are all locked, now that's locked, that's locked, that's locked, that's locked, copy and move. Okay, don't forget to save the template after you've done all this. So what I would suggest is, do this in the main template, then save it as a market replay template. You know where I said, just have, obviously, crude oil, your market profile and your DVHR, that's all you want, otherwise, the market replay is going to get bogged down. But you'll have to keep doing this otherwise, if you don't obviously save this first, if you only do this on your replay template, you won't have it on your main one, do you see what I mean? So, yeah, basically, make sure you save it on the main template. There is a way around it and I'll show you, all right, but like I said, I don't really want to get bogged down in little, little things that I actually think would be better. Obviously, if you want clarity, more than happy to help on CRHR, I've been using this thing years, obviously, I know it very well, but there's little, little things that, you know, if I keep telling you, you're never going to learn it. So, you can go chart, duplicate chart to chart book, okay? So, you can open the other chart book up and you can duplicate this chart to that chart book and get rid of the old one, then you've got this one. So, there are ways around it, but obviously, you know, if you want to make your life easy, save this on the main template and then save this template as a replay template, all right? And what we're going to do is, copy and move drawing. Do you see now, I'm going to go to the minus side, chart drawing properties, minus 2,500. Okay, I'm tempted to say, I'll be back after doing all of this, but look, let's just do it together, it'll only take a few minutes, because I want to make sure everyone understands it. Copy and move drawing, yep, minus 5,000. All right, so we're going to go in here, change it to, don't forget to lock any of them, I apologize, because I'm rushing, but make sure you lock them, right? So, make sure that's locked, yep, that's locked. Okay, almost there. Okay, minus 10,000, and let's lock that, lock. Okay, you'll need to do this, obviously, for the both markets or any markets, you know, if you're doing ES as well. Chart drawing properties, minus 15,000, and lock it. All right, so we're done. You've basically got all your Delta references, and then you can just press Control and click on the mouse, and just, you can expand this out again, do you see what I mean? Do you see, it just gives me a nice, it's really good, I love it actually, to be honest, it gives me a really nice reference point. Honestly, I'm going to say it again, don't think there's any magical properties to do, I couldn't care less if you had 2,400, I don't care if you've got 3,000, just pick one and stick to it. I like 2,500, a lot of people look at it, some people swear by it, I couldn't, you know, that's what I said, this is the problem, why people get, you know, start going down the wrong path, is because they start thinking there's some magic behind any of this stuff. There isn't, it's just handy, all right, I can see straight away whether, you know, relative to the previous high that was around 2,500, do we have absorption, do we have this going on, do we have that going on, have we broken down and broken above certain levels, it's quite nice for me, I like these, they're like nice little reference points, and it will become clear to you, all right, so give me a second, I'm just going to start the market replay, I'm going to go back 30 days, and we're just going to quickly zoom through, and I'm just going to give you my tape on a bit of order flow, so you have some reference points, and show you what I want you to be kind of observing, observing, sorry, and looking at, all right, so back in a sec, okay, traders, so here we are, you can see I've got the market replay, look, I'm going to go through crude oil, because in task four, which I believe was 2.5, or 2.6, I think it was, wasn't it, 2.5 was entry, exit, 2.6 was the task four, where I showed you some examples, that was mainly ES, kind of makes sense now, so I'm going to cover ECL for the next 30 days, but I'm not going to go into the sort of level, do all the hypos and all of that, it's completely unnecessary, I'm obviously going to zip through 30 days of this, but just focus on order flow, obviously, I will put the sort of very rough outlines of the composites and things like that, of course, I will, but you know, I'm just not going to spend the next two hours, obviously, going through each day by day by day, because that's not the purpose, you've got great examples, you've been doing it yourself now anyway, so you know, if you get stuck on anything, of course, reach out to me, you know, I'm always happy to help, but you know, the focus of this exercise is not, you know, hypo building, it is, but what I mean is, it's obviously introducing cumulative delta, so my examples, I don't want it to be necessarily about some of the stuff that I've been talking about before, I really want to focus here on cumulative delta, but when you do the task, this task, task five, then I do want you to obviously be ultra focused on everything, all right, so you know, the hypo building, what's my line in the sand, CVA, what's my market condition on the developing value area, or you know, in my developing value, intraday, VWAP, what's my rhythm, all of that stuff, you know, what's, how's the market behaving as we go along, where would I enter exit, all I'm saying is here, I'm going to focus more on the cumulative delta, but when you do the exercise, guys, 100% focus on everything evenly, all right, so let's, first thing I'll do is, let me just, you know, to be fair, I don't like to pre-prepare any of this stuff, I want you to see, I'm always, as I showed you throughout, and you see me every day doing it, right, I'll make judgments, I'll just show you, you know, no cherry picking, straight, let me just do this from scratch, so what would I have, I'd probably have that, in fact, don't forget to have this chart, getting all the drawings of this chart, so this is number two, in here, let's not forget, it's chart, and then it's chart settings, and it's advanced two, and then, you know, clear that out, and number two, so I want to copy the drawings from my market profile onto my chart, click okay, and there we go, all right, okay, so that's, I'm really not, you know what, normally, I might have stuff from historically, but it really doesn't matter, you've got to start somewhere, so I'm not going to do that, and let's, so what I'm going to do, like I said, I'm not going to say, I can't really watch this replaying, can I, otherwise I'll be here for the next 12 hours, doesn't make any sense to do that, you know, it's pretty obvious what you need to do, so what I'm going to do, if you don't mind, is I'm going to zip ahead 12 hours at a time, and then we're going to go back and have a look at that particular day, and unfortunately, it will sometimes, obviously, cause the market replay to get clogged, because it's got to catch up with itself, so be patient with me, forgive me if it does go slightly awry in terms of, but, you know, luckily, that was okay, so I'm going to zip ahead again 12 hours, all right, all right, so I'm going to let this play whilst I, just so it doesn't, so don't get distracted by that, so let's have a look, again, look, I haven't seen this, obviously, I may have, and in fact, I haven't been that active at all during this period, as you know, because it's very volatile, it's very volatile, so this is probably the first time I'm seeing a lot of this stuff, so, you know, like I said, just literally, for me as well, the first time I'm seeing it, so, you know, just so you know, even I have to make judgments, and I want you to see the type of judgments I'm making when things are shown to me for the first time, because I think that's the most fair reflection, isn't it, of how someone like me, who's an institutional trader, many years experience, is doing it, if I had a chance to look at this before, it's not going to give you the same sort of, oh, it's tough for envy as well, so I want you to see it is tough for me as well, you know, sometimes I make the wrong calls, I make the right calls, but I don't care, because I know over time I'm going to make the right calls, and again, I want you to see why I'm quite relaxed about this stuff, because it's the 5%, right, the whole thing, so I'm not going to draw in, obviously, you know, the zones and all that stuff, make sure you're doing it properly, when you do it, but clearly we can see here overnight, we come in, what's the condition, so essentially, can you see that there's been some absorption taking place, right, look at this here, so firstly, first things first, right, this is what I'm doing, and add this into your overnight hypothesis, you remember there's that thing where you're obviously going overnight, and then you've got your, obviously, your CVA, DVA hypothesis, your developing value area hypothesis, you've got your overnight, right, which you're doing as part of this process, and obviously you don't want, again, the order doesn't matter, as long as you're doing it, who cares where you write it, whether you do any of these first, it really doesn't matter, all right, but the point is overnight, when you're doing your hypothesis here, you're probably saying, ah, imbalanced down, but actually something changed, you know, so very much like a normal stroke fast run, and then something changed, and we started to go, you know, very much, almost, I mean, this was after the open, maybe at this stage, you'd probably say, hang on, the sort of rhythm has changed, clearly, it's not that we've necessarily gone rotational yet, but, you know, you're starting to think, all right, maybe something's changed here, do you see now why the delta is actually quite helpful, because what's happening here, up, do you see that, delta's still pushing down, guys, delta is still pushing down, there is some absorption going on, is it any surprise we pop, no, not really, right, so I know this is a very tough example for us to start off with, but that's how you learn, isn't it, you know, so let's have a look, okay, so you can mark in your little, not trend line, but line, or whatever you wanna call it, your little ray, and look what's happening, we're making higher lows, what's happening here, no, delta's persistent, we're not going up in delta, you know, we're not breaking the minus 5,000, this is why I love having these reference points, again, I don't care if it's minus 5,000, 4,000, 4,700, I couldn't care less, all right, don't think there's some magical properties, fine, most people are looking at 5,000, it's just a benchmark, that's it, to help you read all the flow, that's what I take from it, so sometimes I'll zoom in and just say, look, and forgive me, I'm gonna use my pen, but obviously you can draw your rays in or whatever, look, mark is going up, right, something's wrong here, delta, we're not going up, basically, so clearly there's probably some absorption taking place, you know, the delta's down, it's still pushing down, it's still trying to push down, and therefore, those guys are getting trapped, sellers are getting trapped, bang, all right, so again, rather than focusing so much on the hypothesis, because this is a cumulative delta order flow section, I'm just focusing within the sort of boundaries of your hypothesis, so I'm not just doing it randomly, I'm just trying to show you, obviously, all the things that you've probably got on your sheet, so I want to show you some absorption, I want to show you, obviously, the different types and just show you how I look at them and, you know, how I might use them to aid my decision making, so hopefully you can see that, that was a tough one for us to start off with, this one's a bit clearer, here, can you see, clear absorption, right, sellers are pushing into the bid, right, where's the bid, can you see, here's the bid, basically, you've got sort of the bids here, right, and then, obviously, you've got your offers, what are these guys doing, hitting the bids, you've got your bids here, that's your bids, hitting bids, hitting bids, hitting bids, is the price making lower lows, no, it's not, absorption, and what happened, bang, any surprise, nope, all right, so that was a pretty good one to start off with, hopefully, you can see that, and actually, this is more how I use Cumulative Delta, I'm going to be honest with you, as I've grown over the last few years as a value trader, and I've seen incredible growth in my, forget P&L, obviously, it's obvious, I'm quite transparent, I think it's clear to people, I do very well, forget about that, it's not that, you know, I have grown, obviously, you want to make money, I get that, and it is important, and that side of things has really taken care of itself, and yes, it's important to me, and it's a metric I look at, it's more my growth in understanding of the market in terms of what is the market trying to do from a, as a whole, this will become less and less important from a kind of, oh, look, I've got some absorption, I'm not saying I have, but do you see what I mean, these micro things, oh, I've got some order flow thing, I've got order flow thing going on here, oh, no, something's going on here, no, better not, better be careful, no, all of that stuff, do it for now, because you're learning, but all I'm saying is, I'm trying to be, like, real with you, and say, look, the ultimate goal is for you to be a bit looser with this stuff, for now, be, like, not treat it as gospel, but almost do, you know, just so you can learn it, see its limitations, pros, cons, like I said, you have to go on the journey that I went through, maybe not as long as I did, but if you don't do the journey, I can't just extract experience out of my brain and give it to you, right, this is the problem, a lot of people just think they can read a book, or just do a course, and suddenly, you know, they're, you know, Paul Tudor Jones, or someone like that, it just doesn't work like that, let's be honest, and it's not even, this isn't, like, specific to trading, it's any industry in the world, someone email me, and tell me one industry where overnight, or doing a course, you can suddenly become an expert, you know, let's be realistic, don't exist, trading's no different, you have to go on the journey, the advantage you've got is, I never had anyone to show me any of this stuff, I had to figure it out for myself, so I did lose a lot of years, so take that as a positive, you're obviously doing, I hope you don't mind me saying, and I mean this in the most humble way, a great course, that I never had the type of training, even though I was in a top institution, no, I was under a lot of pressure, I had to perform, you know, the firm that I'm working for is obviously eventually looking to fund me, it costs them to give me a seat, to train me up, I was an expense to them, obviously, you know, I was under pressure, and luckily, it was all right, it worked out in the end for me, because I had, as you know, the experience in investment banking, and I was lucky, you know, I had a lot of experience, obviously, trading, sterling market, as you know, and looking at different stuff that I was doing in investment banking before I moved into props, I was very lucky, but there were other guys around me, 90%, and I told you the success rate is very, very low, they didn't get the type of stuff I'm showing you, so I'm not saying that that means that you're gonna kill it, or also, more importantly, that means you can rush ahead now, because you've been shown, no, take advantage of it, go slowly, take your time, but coming back to the original point, even though I saved a lot of time, you're still gonna have to go on this journey, and you know, I know it seems like I went a little bit off topic there, but it isn't, it's so important, because what it is, is I don't want you to get distracted by the fact that I'm gonna, what I'm about to say to you, which is I'm more interested in this type of order flow, and I kind of hinted at it, this huge swing to swing, do you remember the example I just gave on the last slide, where we had the target up there, and I said, oh, we might have something going on here, or we don't quite make it, but the delta does, and et cetera, et cetera, can you see, this is the same thing in reverse, I might have a target here, and look what's happening, right, and this is happening over hours, guys, I don't need to stare at a depth of market, this thing is incredible, right, I can see this, I'm not saying I would be short, but obviously, to help you understand this, let's treat this as a hypothetical example, and say I was short, clearly, you know, probably the rhythm wasn't right, right, for it to be a short trade, or whatever, probably wasn't, but I'm just saying, so I can prove my point to you, let's say I was short, well, let's say I was short in the morning, whatever, I'm short, right, as soon as I see this absorption taking place, i.e., you know, these bids being, these bidders basically absorbing, the buyers are absorbing, and I can see the sellers, they're not able to push this market lower load, and then I see some value being built here, and do you remember I said, but I showed it the other way, but this time, it's on the downside, guys, I am going to reduce my risk, if not exit all, obviously, I can't, I'd be lying to you if I said, yep, I'm going to get out of the hole, who knows, who knows, maybe, you know, there's so many factors, this is why I can never copy someone, maybe I got on outside of the wrong side of bed that morning, and I make a different decision, and say I'm only going to reduce 30% or 50%, excuse me, I'm going to take some water, very rude, but apologies, so it depends, you know, I might reduce 25, 30, 40, 50% on another given day, I might close the whole thing, but I do know I'm going to be reducing my risk, that's the point, and my point is, I'm more interested in order flow over this kind of horizon, even, you know, perhaps something like that, obviously, I understand this is the next day, so, you know, take that with a pinch of salt, but you see what I mean in terms of distances, but the reason I gave you the whole speech before about, you know, going on the journey is because it's too much of a leap, all right, I'm already helping you by saving you all the years that I had to go through, and getting you cracking on, and showing you how this is only 5%, and all that stuff I had to figure out for myself, all right, like I said, no one sat there, even in one of the best proprietary trading environments in the world, and said to me, oh yeah, just make sure you understand it's only 5%, I didn't get any of that, I was left to figure that out for my own devices that, oh, you know, at first, I was like, every single thing was, and obviously, I was a debt to market guy as well, which didn't help, every single time I saw one little blip, oh, no, let me get out, let me get back, it was all over the place, it took me a long time to come to this realisation, but I can't, you know, you can't just skip that entire process, that's all my point is, play around with it, go through some of these more micro ones, but just understand that when I'm not doing that, understand why, it's because I'm obviously further ahead in the journey than you, that's all it is, with all due respect, you know, that journey is something that you're going to have to go on, and it's fun, okay, it's great, you know, especially if you're, again, with all due respect to retail education, if you've come from that, you won't have seen stuff like this before, so it's, hopefully, you find it greatly, sort of, interesting, if not anything else, that, oh, I see now what institutional traders, like Envy, like other guys, whoever it is, I see what they're looking at, I see what it means now to have divergence, it's not any of this nonsense on what I've been showing, RSI and all this, it's all garbage, market orders, the fabric of the market, there's divergence going on, on a micro level, oh, let me have a look at that over the next few weeks and months, and come to the conclusion yourself, that, oh, actually, maybe it is a bit too microscopic, I've realised now from experience, I see what Envy was saying, I didn't take his word for it, but I experienced it myself, and I used what he said as a benchmark, as a guide, and, actually, now, I see now, all right, maybe I will look at slightly, sort of, wider, sort of, order flow, so, look, speech over, but I hope that was useful for you, you know, I always say this, I wish people had taken me to the side and told me this, they didn't, I was left to figure it out, but, you know, obviously, I'm more than happy to, sort of, share my experience, you're not going to take my edge away, right, what do I lose, nothing, you know, at the end of the day, it's like, it's great for me, I don't want to, you know, it's a bit extreme, but I don't want to, I'm going to say the word, I hate this word, die, but I don't want to, basically, go to my grave, knowing that, you know, I found all this stuff, and I was never able to share it with anyone, so, you know, I've said this before, it gives me, you know, it's incredible for me, as well, to be able to share all this stuff with you, so, that's why I say a lot of this stuff, you know, I think it makes me feel better, as well, that I was able to share some of the insights that I've got, so, let's leave it there, let's not get too soppy, let's see it for what it is, all right, it's not, you know, some holy grail, it's just one very little, tiny part of the puzzle, but I feel that looking at it this way is going to help you, so, let's move on very quickly now, because we've wasted about 90% of the time, and let me, basically, get rid of that, and let's just zoom forward, okay, so, potentially, here, this is a really good example of delta neutrality, all right, guys, can you see it? So, I don't necessarily look at prior value areas when we're this close, right, and, in fact, we don't even need to, let me get rid of that, it's not that important, because we do have this line in the sand above, here, right, this is a brilliant example of what I said about being delta neutral, so, can you see here, we've basically opened up, right, so, don't forget, there's a zero line there, here, okay, and then there's, obviously, the open here, so, can you see, we start at zero, and I completely forgot to mention that here, you'll see, we always start at zero, I've mentioned this, obviously, in the drawings, but now I'm pointing out, you know, look, we always start at zero, because that's the session open, right, about 1800 New York time, or whatever it is, no contracts have been traded, so, what's the cumulative delta, zero, delta zero, you always start at zero, what's happened here, we've gone up, look at this, in your context, right, you can write overnight, yep, imbalanced, but hang on, what's happened here, no participation, can you see what's happened, this is a stop out, all right, yesterday's low, classic, classic, classic, oil traders, oil market makers, oil, whatever you want to call them, big players in the oil market, what have they done, lots of people might have got longer of this market, right, clear stops below here, stops below here, okay, can you see this, look at your thing about, you know, the price, obviously, getting ahead of itself, what is that, no one's interested in selling this market, so not only you've got two types of order flow going, incredible context for you, so your overnight should be, hang on a minute, we're imbalanced, rhythm is what, probably fast trend, but something's not right, firstly, there's no participation, you know, you can write that, no participation, possible, stop out, stops, guys, at the end of the day, this is experience, right, you're not going to get this overnight, but I hope this is actually really exciting for you, because you can see what's possible, if you put in the screen time, you know, the thing I said about, oh, yesterday's lows, I don't know, to me, I don't even have to think, it just was, oh, yes, it was obvious to me, that's taken a long time, you know, I'm not going to exaggerate and say it took five years, no, it took, you know, many, many, many hours of watching this, to the point it was almost subconscious, I'm only realizing now, it just said it, it just popped out without me even thinking about it, oh, they've taken out yesterday's lows, and actually, those are yesterday's RTH flows, so they've got two bangs for their buck, right, these guys are loving it, basically, what they've done is, big players, if they've come in, they've stopped all the longs out of the market, and do you remember what I said to you, that sometimes, if the market wants to achieve a target further up, what do you need to do, flush the inventory out, and that's exactly what they've done, so look, we started off quite strong, and then we came back down, do you remember what I said to you about the zero, we've gone neutral, I love this thing, so it's my favorite line, the zero, you can even put it here, neutral flush, question mark, obviously, we don't know, right, you could get this flush, and could fail, and we could just carry on down, and we break zero, and the big players, you know, whoever they're flushing out, or whatever the process they're doing, fails, it's not, you know, 100% guaranteed, of course it's not, some of the big players themselves, who are flushing this out, they themselves might get nervous, because they don't like how this flush out is taking too long, or, do you see what I mean, we don't know, some of those big players themselves may decide, actually, maybe this isn't working, and then bang, they go the other way, you don't know, you've got to be open, very open-minded in this business, but you also can only go on what evidence is being put in front of you, and the evidence here is what, basically, we've got this, this flush out, right, we've got this flush out going on, there's so many things you can take from the order flow here, so I've pointed out two huge things already, if you think about it, what else, well, if you want to get short, we haven't really got aggressive with the order flow, which is kind of the same thing as no participation, my point is that there's so many things warning you, red light here, that hang on, maybe shorting isn't advisable for me here, so, you know, hopefully you can see that, next example, where have we gone, okay, so, let's go forward another 12 hours, just give it a second to catch up with this, apologies, sometimes, what you can do is, you can just do different, you know, you can speed it up as well, sometimes that will help it jump ahead, got to realise how lucky you are to have this replay function, I never had this when I was, you know, many years ago, all this power, so, what I'm saying is, be gentle with it, be patient, you know, sometimes it will get a little bit clogged up, don't worry about that, just be patient with it, let it be, don't forget, I'm jumping 12 hours at a time, so, it's got a lot to catch up with, there you go, so, we've jumped ahead there, so, in this circumstance, would you agree, I probably would have used the prior value area from the day before, okay, and have I got these saved in, the PVA, yep, from the last video that I did, no, that's not it, yeah, so, what was it, it was TC6, isn't it, so, if I press TC6, yep, oh, no, my choice of colour, it says a lot about your personality, and that maybe doesn't say good things about my personality, but it is what it is, again, you know, like I always say, don't really worry about the colours too much, I'm going to jump this forward, hopefully, that works, yeah, just so I can get to the end of the day, and I'm going to let this continue to play, maybe at a bit more of a normal speed, because I don't want it to get too far ahead, just so it doesn't get clogged up, because sometimes when I pause it, it does get a little bit clogged up, when I play it, it allows the whole thing to just continue, obviously, updating itself, so, can we spot anything here, yeah, again, can you see, guys, classic, do you remember I was saying this to you about the neutral, neutralising, I said it's uncanny how it does it, it's not any golden ticket to riches, it's just another piece of the puzzle, right, so, here, let's have a look at this, you know, again, you can mark this with a little, so, I'll do it for you here, two ways to do it, you can either mark this like that, and then say, oh, looking good, looking good, participation, order flow's gone down, you know, kind of shot up here, and we did what, got close to neutral, fine, just a flush out, it's all it is, is a flush out of the weak hands, inventory went almost neutral, right, absolutely crucial to pick up on that point, inventory went what, back to zero, guys, the market orders for the day, net, net, in terms of delta, are what, zero, the market's flat, positioning, net positioning, and look where it came up to, I'm not saying there's a trading position, and that's not the point of this, I wanna show you how useful this is, how are you gonna see this on the depth of market, how are you gonna see this on the footprint, you know, it comes back to my point, I hope you can see, I'm actually trying to give you something of incredible value, you're not gonna find this out there, right, so, personally, I think it's better than depth of market, footprint, I love it, you know, it's fantastic, in my opinion, but, there you go, that's just me, and then look at this, here you've got double, double order flow, sort of inflammation here, if you look, the next thing, so here, look, there's nothing wrong here, right, with what's gone on here, it's a fairly aggressive move, so let's just remind ourselves of exactly, see, what it is, is here, you've gotta remember that you're keying off this, this prior value area hasn't actually happened yet, right, it's more for this day, I'm just kind of skipping ahead, so I'm going through two days, so, in fact, almost, remember, this doesn't exist on this day, okay, so you've gotta kind of ignore that value area on this day, we're keying off this level, hopefully that makes sense, so you can almost see, coming into the RTA session, it's fine, the order flow's strong, and then, obviously, here, like I said, you get this flushing process, and then, guys, look at this, so you've got a slow trend, right, got a slow trend going on, it's imbalanced, the market's not rotational, it's very much imbalanced, and you might be thinking, how do I get into this market, boom, look at this, guys, so you've got absorption, can you see this absorption, it's incredible, and I know I sound like a sort of kid in a sweet shop, and I am, even, you know, after all these years of looking at this, it's just, I love this thing, because look how clear that is, right, I didn't have to sit here staring at a depth of market for five hours to gauge that information, or look at footprint, and try and compare six hours ago raincoat footprint to, oh, 11 o'clock, and compare the two, no, blink of an eye, oh, look at that, delta made higher highs here, so what was going on, absorption, what is happening here, it's guys on the offer, isn't it, offer side, people are lifting the offer, lifting the offer, lifting the offer, and what's happening, price is not moving relative to this, is it, on top of that, delta neutral, guys, it's just a flush out, okay, that's all it is, this is what I'm saying, this thing, it's incredible how the market does it, what they're doing is, you know, maybe they want to go and take out the lows of the day, right, clearly that's what they're attempting to do, you don't know that at this point, but clearly the big guys, as I said, you know, if you know the composition of the oil market, the futures market, same with most of the liquid futures markets, it does tend to be quite concentrated in terms of the firms and the players, right, where the volume is, so I'm not saying they kind of collude, although obviously I've got my suspicions, but, you know, it doesn't matter, deal with it, it is what it is, you can't change the system, the system is the system, you adapt to the system, whatever they're doing, whoever these guys are, I don't get paranoid about it, I use it to my advantage, I know they're probably thinking, whoever the big players are, taking out the lows potentially, but my point is that for the market to do that, they need new sellers to come in, these sellers are what, incredibly short already, and therefore they need to be flushed out, so what have they done, what's the market done, the market has flushed these sellers out, and you can see the aggression to what, flat on the day, so there's no positioning in the market, so what, those new people are now free to drive this thing short again, hope you can see that, this is incredibly powerful information, you're not going to get it anywhere apart from on the delta, so, you know, and I know I keep going on about this in terms of, please don't treat this as an indicator, it is the depth of market, right, give it obviously the sort of, respect's a strong word, right, because it sounds like I'm lecturing you, and I'm not, it's sort of give it the credence, and give it the, you know, the, just read it in the right way is what I'm saying, treat it with, treat it for what it is, it's the raw data, market orders, and then obviously like I've said, and I'm going to repeat the point, you know, don't, please obviously keep this stuff in house, the neutral stuff, this thing about neutral, because like I said, I've never seen this anywhere before, it just makes so much sense to me, that, you know, you obviously, when you're looking at inventory, you're obviously going to look at it relative to what, zero, right, there's no longs or shorts, they're flat, essentially, from an inventory perspective, that's clearly going to have an impact on price, given the narrative, okay, it's all contextual, relative to where we've been before, look, I really hammered that point home, and then finally, you can see everything was normal, so, you know, if you do manage to somehow get in short here, because you think, all right, neutral, there's my red turn, as I said, that I can actually hit it, let me give this an attempt to go and test the lows or whatever, because like I said, this doesn't exist, right, it's basically this data came off that, and I'm going to go to the lows, watching the order flow, you can also then, this has got so many great examples on one day, it's almost got all the order flow types in a single day, is you can start to then look at these little micro things and see, is there participation, do other people agree with me, yes, they do, look, price is going down, market orders are hitting into bids, progression, it's the don't, that's all it is, good, there's participation, I'll hold it, and then in this move, again, yes, there is, there is, and then maybe you got stopped out as it pulls back, right, thing is, you don't know, you don't know how far it's going to go, no one's got a crystal ball, so yeah, I think that was a really good day, let's go on to the next day, just give me a second, okay, guys, so let's forward on, and you know what, I must apologize, because I'm fast forwarding so much, I did mention to you that obviously we are keying off, what do you call it, this level here, but actually on this day, hopefully most of you have noticed, we are actually keying off, it's basically this whole day here, okay, so this day is this day, I beg your pardon, basically I was just, because I'm fast forwarding ahead, obviously I'd not realized we've basically jumped the date here, all right, so all of this, essentially this is still perfectly valid, everything I've said to you is exactly the same, in fact, if anything, it's even more valid, because now we've got obviously the composite context, and we've also got the prior value, and you know, as soon as you break down below here, you've gone to the other side, and then here there's potential opportunities to play it back to here, so actually, if anything, it even makes my point even stronger that, you know, you've got shorting opportunities here, and you can play it down, and here actually is quite nice, because you've got this target here, so hopefully that makes sense, it's this basically, this session, and in fact what it was, because obviously such a short session in crude, it threw me a little bit, because obviously I'm fast forwarding 12 hours, and actually the session is only a very small session, so obviously when you're doing this, you won't be doing it as fast as me, so it'll be much more straightforward for you, but you know, obviously I prefer to be technically 100% correct, so I'll just correct myself there, that from this point onwards, you know, we're basically keying of this, and keying of that, so it actually makes sense that in that sort of confluence area, we're going for these sort of targets, you've got a return, and you know, you could potentially play this again as a rotational play back down, rotational in the sense of the prior value area, but obviously more as a slow trend in the sense of your deviate, right, hopefully that makes sense, and let's shoot off ahead again, there we go, so this time we've basically not got any levels, you know, we've just got the value area up there, and actually probably we'd merge that, and that, I'll put that there, so you've got that, yeah, perfect, so you know, we kind of had this day where the oil market just decided to shut down, so let's have a look at this, and you know, this was a period where there was a lot of volume coming into the market, because obviously it was quite a lot of volatility, and yeah, the supply pulled off, but there was obviously a lot of volume as well coming into the market, probably like, you know, long oil funds or whoever just getting out of their position, it wasn't necessarily new speculators, it would have been people with, in my opinion, you know, like long oil funds and things like that, just dumping basically, so my point is this, that you, you know, there's nothing wrong with increasing 2000 up to 2500 or whatever, because you can see there's so much more data in the same real estate, you've got to be able to adjust, you know, all of that, so let's see anyway, you've got to be able to calibrate is my point, let's see anyway what happened here, there wasn't really anything that I can see, you know, I'm not going to be 100% right all the time, you know, sometimes I'm going to, it's not read it wrong, but my read may not be correct as to how the market eventually ends up, and that's okay, you know, you might see something differently, different to me, again, that's okay, right, at the end of the day, that's what makes a market, you know, you might be buying and I might be selling, makes a market, right, if that didn't happen, there wouldn't be a market, so don't think, oh, Envy saw this, and actually, Envy, that's not how I saw it, you know, like in that last example, obviously, that's because I skipped ahead and I apologise, I didn't even notice the days, I got them a little bit mixed up, in terms of that prior value, you might go, hang on, isn't, I'd be keying off that prior value area, I wouldn't only be, do you see what I mean, it doesn't matter, at the end of the day, that's what makes a market, you know, be confident, even if you spot things I don't spot, obviously, rushing ahead, so sometimes I might miss something or I might do something that isn't 100% perfect and it's great if you spot that, it's actually good that sometimes you see someone like me, even with a lot of experience, albeit I was rushing or whatever and I might not spot things properly, it happens, even sometimes in the real market, I might make a mistake, I might do something, you know, it's normal, it's absolutely normal, so don't worry about it and don't think, oh my God, have I got it wrong, no, if there's something you see me doing on the video and it doesn't quite look right, just tell me, it's fine, I'm open to it, I love feedback, I'll go in, I'll double check it, you know, I'll obviously, it helps me, it helps you make this better for everyone who's after you and so don't hesitate to say, you know, Envy, I don't think that was right, what you did there or this looked different to me, I love feedback, at the end of the day, that's how I grew as a trader, you know, I loved it when my boss screamed at me and said, what the hell are you thinking, what's wrong with you, you know, forgive me, you know, obviously that's not how I think is a necessarily the most respectful or conducive way to speak to someone but that's just how it was on the trading floor, I've kind of learned to live with it, but look, I was getting way off topic there, the point is that I can't really see anything here and in fact, you know what, sometimes you've got to recognize that when the order flow is doing what you want it to, that's also incredibly powerful because you may and I'm not saying this is the case but you can see there was some sort of slow trend here, you want to get short of this market, the market's pulled back, you're below zero, you know, basically the market's telling you it's incredibly short, it's pulling back, it's not going above zero, there's no, you know, there's no crazy order flow telling you that this down move is going to end, so for example, you know, in terms of the price going up and delta going up, my point is this move up, it's not aggressive in any way, we're not seeing any sort of aggression in the order flow to make us think that this is anything more than just a normal pullback, right, nothing wrong with things just being normal, look, market goes down, delta goes down, market goes up, delta goes up, in fact, this is why it's great for me to show you different days, different examples, because you're going to get different types of order flow, sometimes it is just going to be normal, you've hit short, whatever, market goes down, on order flow, just hold it, great, you see what I mean, got very short, went down minus 15,000, huge amount of selling on this day, I mean, look where we're going, minus 22,000, you saw in the last example, we went minus 2,000, this is just experience, right, again, honestly, I didn't even trade this market, so it's not like I had it pre-prepared that, oh, in my notes, let me point out to the guys that in this day, it's minus 22, no, I want to show you that, you know, with experience, this will come, it just hit me, like literally, subconsciously, I was like, oh, 2,500, 25, what it is, is the more days you see, then you can trade them differently, if I was trading something like this, and I saw we were so aggressive in the order flow, I'm going to be more inclined to think, all right, there's some major participation here from people on higher timeframes, higher investment horizons, we call them OTF, if you read, I think in the market profile books, they talk about it a lot, you know, in institutional speak, it's OTF, basically, other timeframe participants, we're locals, we're basically people who are, day trading is, you know, has negative connotations to it, so I don't like to say that, it's looking for intraday opportunities, where intraday players, where intraday professionals, you know, we're not participating in the order flow, those guys are on other timeframes, and they were definitely in the market today, right, maybe not from a speculative perspective, but dumping positions, like I said, you might have had, you know, speculative oil funds, who are holding oil, they're getting out, right, they're thinking, oh, all their stops, or their margin calls, or whatever, point is, this, when you're at minus 22,000, big players are in the market, who aren't necessarily in every day, they dip in, dip out, might be once a week, twice a week, we'll talk about this, when the VWAPs come, but it's important that I mention this here, so you start to get a feel for how, you can't read any of this stuff in the book, it'll come with experience, you'll start to put two and two together, and then, you know, you'll be able to obviously see these things that I see, off the cuff, so anyway, that was a really good day for us to look at, you know, because I'm just thinking, I won't necessarily do another three weeks, obviously, it's a bit pointless, but let's just keep going, and then I'll probably stop shortly, let's do a few more days, okay, this is where things just went a little bit crazy, again, look at that minus 32,000, very unusual, you know, if you were to draw a distribution of daily cumulative delta, max, and min, and actually plot that, you'd see we were at probably way beyond two standard deviation moves, right, these are huge moves, guys, so let's just jump forward, okay, so we're on 16 bucks, okay, so really nothing, nothing to, and like I said, it's fine, personally, would I trade off this, no, because there's no value, the market couldn't agree on price, we didn't have a, let's not even, look, let's be honest, you've obviously been doing enough hours with me now to know that the market had no agreement here, you can't really call that a value area, so I wouldn't even be trading it, but for the sake of example, let's just pull that in, and you can see the participation is, again, there's nothing here, really there's nothing, pretty normal order flow, isn't it, and that's okay, it's fine, you know, it's great, actually, if you've got days like this, just take your thesis and go with it, right, what's wrong with it, you don't need order flow to tell you something all the time, you know, and I'm glad I've got a couple of examples like this where not much is happening, yeah, just got up move, up move in delta, pullback, pullback in delta, up move, and then up move, and then just kind of petered out for the rest of the day, and then, yeah, we had this little crazy move at the end, but I wouldn't really class that as very much apart from, you know, people probably positioning towards end of day, so, you know, you're gonna get some sort of divergences, obviously, between order flow and prices towards end of day is quite typical, I wouldn't really read too much into it, you know, you're not looking to initiate in this area, there's obviously gonna be a lot of guys that are doing kind of end of day book cleaning and stuff like that, so it is gonna have, you know, and it's gonna have basically a sort of imbalanced impact on the order flow relative to where price is, so let's just move on. Okay, so this was a really nice day, actually, so we can, I wouldn't necessarily want to merge all of that, I just, it's one of the very rare occasions where overlapping profiles, I wouldn't merge it, probably once in a blue moon, I mean, how many times are you gonna get a move in oil like that, it's just not gonna happen, so just because I'm not merging them, I don't want you to think, oh, Envy doesn't merge overlapping profiles, it's not, guys, this is, you know, once in a decade, you saw this was like during the virus and whatever, so there's no value there, is there, you can't really merge that, there's nothing there, it's just basically a line going down, it's just selling, basically, the market did not agree on anything there, it was selling and then push back up, that's it, it's just, there's no agreement in value, this day, however, was pretty good, we got some balance, and you can see it here, and it is a prior value, I'm not gonna change the colour, obviously, in the interest of time, but I think this was a really nice day, because, so overnight, what happened, coming into the RTH, do you remember I told you that even failures are incredibly powerful, brilliant example here, we got the zero, okay, what happened, we had market selling off, and then what, we went, obviously, from a CVA perspective, breakout of value pullback, you're looking to get in, look, you're not gonna be around at three in the morning, let's be honest, you're not gonna catch that move, right, so that's okay, and anyway, market was still fairly negative, you know, below zero, if the narrative is very strong, remember what I said, I don't care if we're here, I'm gonna take the trade, let's just assume that the narrative wasn't there, so maybe you wanna be a bit weary, okay, but you're still not coming to the market, you're coming into the market around here, clearly, you're, got a nice sort of imbalance going on, even that, I'm happy with that rhythm, whatever, doesn't matter, it's somewhere in this region, isn't it, the rhythm, clearly, you're gonna get long, should I get long, can I use the order flow to help me execute my thesis, what's going on, so order flow perspective, you know, when you do your sort of journaling for the morning and your hypo, okay, and you've got your overnight and your writing, start writing about the order flow, describe it, just say, oh, oh, failed, below zero, see that, and then we popped up, guys, this zero thing, I tell you, I've never seen it, but it just, to me, it's so powerful, because clearly, the market was net negative in inventory and went positive, failed, to me, that's huge information that the market wasn't happy being net negative in inventory, it wanted to be positive, you know, and I know I sound like a broken record, but it's important to hammer the point, how are you gonna see this on a depth of market, you're not gonna see it, how are you gonna see this on a footprint, you're not gonna see it, right, you're only gonna see this on cumulative delta, to me, it summarizes everything on the bottom of my chart, and it saves me having to have all the other stuff up, so, you know, hopefully, you can see the power in this, you're breaking above zero, obviously, you know, it's obviously pre-opened, so you wouldn't actually know that until this move happened, let's be fair, you know, and then you come in and then, do you remember, I don't know if you vaguely remember I was saying to you that the way I establish rhythm is I like things to be tested, so you come here, you test it once, and then you test it twice, and what have we just done, we've broken zero, right, the order flow is positive, in my opinion, you're gonna be all over this, long, and then you can watch the order flow, is there participation in this move up, yes, there is, no reason for me to exit, and then, potentially, just get stopped out, like I said, you can keep moving, every time you make a new high, just move your stop up, make a new high, move your stop up, and the order flow was supportive, sick, great, you know, obviously, if we had done this, and this was my point, and we didn't have any of this order flow here, okay, we just went like that, and then the order flow just went sideways, but this went up, guys, I would be seriously thinking, you know, as we make higher highs there, but we don't make high highs in order flow, I'm gonna be thinking, hang on, something's not right, participation isn't there, something's not right, all right, so let's move forward, okay, let me see if I see anything interesting here, do you remember I did say to you on a, typically, a flat view update, where we're going up and down, you're gonna see Delta go up and down, so again, this was a great, I'm not saying there was necessarily trading opportunities, and actually, there may have been, because we're keying off previous value, right, so actually, it's probably a very nice opportunity out there, you're in a rotational market here, down, test the 2SD, you test the 2SD, look, what's Delta done, gone below zero, gone above zero, order flow is supportive here, why, because when you're doing your sort of, you know, you're thinking about, do I have a trading opportunity here, you're putting your hypo together, what's order flow done, negative, positive, it's a rotational market, the order flow is rotational, and then you get short, and yeah, it didn't go back up to zero, but that's okay, because obviously, the market never really, you know, made the highs, so that's perfectly normal, that's it really, you don't see much else on that day, so that's quite good, it gave you a different example of some of the things I've been showing you, then obviously, we can merge these two, okay, the shoot forward, okay, it's decided to not cooperate, because I've moved it far, so many times, you see, so sometimes I play around with the speed, and just be patient with it, it will get going, right, it's not that the system's broken, it's not, it's incredibly powerful, in fact, it's by far the best platform I've ever used, and you know, for the price, it's unbelievable, as I've said many times, so just be patient with it, maybe fiddle around with the speed a little bit and stuff, just be patient with it, don't forget, if you're jumping a lot ahead, I keep saying it, but it is getting clogged up, because it needs to load all that data, that you've just jumped 12 hours, so you know, just be patient with it, let me speed this ahead, okay, guys, I know this was overnight, so you wouldn't have taken this straight, but can you see, I've just shown you so many examples of the flushing process, it's unbelievable how this market does this, go down, look what they did, they just flushed a whole bunch of sort of shorts out of this market, yeah, ideally, they would have wanted to obviously take out some of these stocks, but the point is, clearly, a lot of people got out of positions, went back to what, inventory being flat, makes so much sense, flat, then what does that mean, there's no sellers, and you know, if the market was clearly trying to achieve the other side of value, you know, as soon as we broke in here, you know, had this been during the session, great trading opportunity, the normal trend, amazing opportunity, the point is, it allows new sellers to push this market down, right, the market is clearing out weak hands, these hands were weak, that got short, clearing them out, which allows what, new sellers to come to the market, all right, so let's speed ahead anyway, because obviously, I think I've pretty much covered everything I want to, but I'm just going to keep pressing ahead, just in case I spot anything, okay, yeah, so this is, and again, it is overnight, but it doesn't matter, at the end of the day, it's not the point, the point is, I'm obviously trying to show you some order flow examples, this is basically stop outs again, and clear stopping out, and weak, you know, participation, so if you see here, market's going down, we shot up, but can you see, so normal order flow there, normal order flow, look what happened, we broke this high, low, is this lower high, lower low, we broke the lower high, right, did we break the lower high? No, we didn't, all right, so these are stop outs, clear stop run, there was no participation, right, so on your thing, it's not absorption, it's participation, lack of participation, all right, so forward this again, and in fact, it's amazing, isn't it, on this thing, you had lack of participation, and then you got absorption as well, look at this, lower low, here, we actually touched the lower low, here, we didn't, all right, so what is that, it's bids, isn't it, people hitting into the bid, buyers absorbing, look at these, sellers are pushing, and the price wasn't quite able to make it there, so there's quite a bit of absorption towards the end of the leg there, and what was the result? It's quite amazing, you can see all the games being played, you know, I'm not saying you can always take advantage of that, but at least you can spot them now in quite an easy way, what indicator in the world is going to tell you this, nothing, you know, apologies, I'm going to say it again, they're all garbage, right, all those indicators, it's just, this is not an indicator, right, this is market orders, did I accidentally, I think I pressed the wrong button there, didn't I, forgive me if I did something, I think I merged it previously, but anyway, these two are separate, shoot forward, I'm going to shoot forward quite fast now, because I do have a little bit to still cover, and I'm just going to see if there's, if there's nothing interesting, see like here, this wasn't really, it's not that it's not interesting, it's very useful and powerful, don't confuse not interesting with useless, it isn't, it's incredibly useful, because even here, you can see perfect long opportunities, right, as per your hypo, CVA, you know, breakout of value pullback opportunity, developing value area here, imbalance, see the rhythm is, you know, normal trend, fast trend, whatever, and when you're looking at the order flow, and you're trying to come up with some sort of support towards your thesis, is it supportive? Yeah, it is, just because it's doing nothing unusual, that's great, in fact, that means, look, buyers, good, look at this, guys, we're above 5000, clearly, this market is very long, it wants to go up, there's your target, boom, pull the trigger, do you know what I mean, don't hang around, and in fact, this is a great, again, I don't look at this, because you've seen the way I have my chart, is just literally, I don't look at this level of detail anymore, on the intraday VWAP stuff, but for you, I want you to do it, look at this, in fact, this is perfect, this is what the whole speech at the start was about, that go on this journey, the micro, can you see here, and here, ever so slightly, look, we just touched that, we broke the lows, clearly a little stop run, did we have participation? No, do you see, it was just flat here, in terms of the order flow, I used to look at this stuff quite a lot, sorry, I'm having trouble with this, don't worry, we'll get it moved, one second, I have to do it a different way, can you see that, flat, and that's clearly, it's just, look, it's a little stop run, it's a very mini, mini stop run, okay, where we've basically, what, price has got ahead of the order flow, and we didn't have participation, so it's just a little stop run, bang, gives you more confidence, again, on a micro basis, I'll be honest with you, again, I keep saying it, but for me, if I've got a strong thesis, I probably would have hit this, like, five, 20 minutes before you guys, literally, you know, again, I do focus a lot on that 70, 20, and if I'm solid, and I see this type of order flow, and we're coming into the open, and I can almost assure you, having said that, we are above the two standard deviation, man, but I can assure you, as soon as we kind of drift, and it gives me some sort of opportunity, I'd be in, you know, I wouldn't necessarily wait for this type of stuff, you know, if I think there's a clear, I'm just gonna hit it, I'll be honest with you, but that's because I'm focusing on a 70, 20, but don't worry about that, that will come in time, for now, I want you to master order flow, because it gives you a lot of practice, and can you see, when you're, and I think that's what I failed to mention before, is when you're looking at it on a micro basis, the order flow gives you an incredible amount of practice doing this, even, just look at it on a micro basis, keep trying to spot things, because you can then apply the same, how different is it, in terms of the actual, sort of, the principle, it's the same, right, you're looking for lack of participation, loads of participation, absorption, whether it's happening on a micro basis, the sort of principle is exactly the same, if you can master it, if you do it on a micro basis, you're gonna get a lot more practice in, and then over time, if you agree with me, who knows, my way isn't the right way to do it, necessarily, the only way, sorry, to do it, you may become really good at reading on a micro level, and say, nah, do you know what, Envy told me that, but I always say this, go through the journey, figure out for yourself, you may actually feel, no, I actually think the micro order flow is actually really helpful, it's helping me pick my entries nicely, you know, it's just obviously some people, I, you don't wanna be in front of your screens the whole time, watching for micro stuff, you know, you might wanna go off and do other things, and you may have other commitments, and I get that, and therefore, the way I do it might suit you better, but if you wanna sit there and watch it, and you feel it gives you some edge, who am I to tell you, there's nothing wrong, as long as you're not using a 50% Fibonacci to get into this, I'm cool with it, okay, honestly, I don't care, you're using market orders, you're using on a micro basis, it's fine, all right, do it, I did obviously say, you know, be aware that there's a lot of algos, and obviously, machines playing at this level, but it's with your thesis, it's cool, it's fine, it's just, for me, I'm obviously doing things slightly differently now, that's it, we've discussed that to death, let's move on, and see where we are, so I am gonna shoot actually quite fast now, and I hope you don't mind, again, I'm just gonna see if I spot anything, otherwise, I'm just gonna move forward, so we can pretty much wrap this up now, so I think, and I hope you agree, I've pretty much shown you everything that I needed to, you know, how many times do you need to see it, guys, look at this, the flushing process, it's unbelievable, isn't it, market got long, needed to flush hands out, maybe because it wanted to test the eyes, right, what did it do, flushed them out, went flat, Bob's your uncle, keeps happening, right, but it's not magic, it's not RSI below 30, oh my god, it's logical, you know, a lot of this stuff, I've got no problem with indicators, right, if as logical people, we could sit around a table and say, yeah, actually, that makes sense, why that indicator did this and is indicating this to us, and the average of this many days, and yeah, 21 or 15 days, that makes sense to me, that makes sense, or Fibonacci 50%, yeah, makes sense, 61.8%, you know, really, it's ridiculous, what does that mean, right, you know, fine, golden ratio is whatever nature, come on, let's be real here, these are people, right, this isn't, you know, some sort of cauliflower pattern or whatever you see in nature, I've got all respect for all of that, but come on, guys, this is, you know, this is the stuff you want to be looking at, my point is that if we all sat around a table, right, you watching this and me, and we had a logical conversation and said, this delta, the market orders, when things go flat, does it make logical sense that it could be a flushing process? Yeah, it does actually, because do you know what, the market's struggling at this point, you know, it wants to go up, it's pulled back, it wants to, I'm saying if you had a contextual reason to go up there, you know, or whatever, or even up here, or somewhere further up, let's make this, you know, so that's your hypo for the day, whatever, you're in a rotation environment, and you're looking to get long, whatever, you know, off the rotations, because your rhythm is, and obviously, ideally, you might want to be here or here, that's not the point, point is you're looking to get long rotation environment, you know, you've got your sort of CVA target up here, or whatever it is, if we sat around a table and said, the market's got really long here, it's come back, we're back to zero, we've even gone below zero, and gone back above, I mean, come on, how many more clues do you need? It's turning around, does it make sense that the market's just probably gone through a process of flushing out these longs, because the inventory got so long of itself, it needs people to come into the market, and push this thing up to achieve its, you know, value proposition, which is up here, you know, as we said, we're moving from value to value, right, so in this instance, we're clearly imbalanced, yeah, we've come out of one, we've done a, what, breakout of value pullback, and we're looking to seek value elsewhere, albeit intra period is rotational, let's not forget it's different, static to static, to static, to static, intra period is different, it's developing still, you don't know how this may end up, it may end up in balance, we don't know, it's still developing, so, you know, we've got to, and we've talked about this a lot in stage two, you've got to separate them, but coming back to the point, if we sat around a table and said, hang on, it makes sense that these guys have been flushed out, inventory's gone flat again, which means what, the market isn't long, the market isn't short, which means there's people there to get long, if people are already long, why would they, see what I mean, what I'm saying is we could at least have an intelligent conversation about it, and it makes sense, I can argue my point with you and say, yeah, do you know what, that makes sense, I'm not relying on this thing on my chart, I'm using logic, and please don't think I'm patronizing you, I know that you're all using logic, I've said it a million times before, everything outside of trading, you're probably, you know, I'm at the bottom rung of the ladder, probably on most things that don't involve trading, so don't get me wrong, I know you're all incredibly intelligent and good at your own jobs and professions, and much better than I would ever be, but I'm just saying in trading, let's be honest, a lot of people who are good, logic goes out the window, and that's where my point is, when you're doing this stuff, you might think, oh my god, he's going on and on, I'm trying to help you develop this sort of thinking, that don't rely on me, don't rely on anyone else, use what I've shown you, or have a conversation with yourself and say, hang on, does it actually make sense to me what's happening here, yeah, actually that does make sense, we don't do that with all the other junk, like obviously the indicator stuff, even if you stop for five minutes with an indicator and ask yourself, does this actually make sense, you'd quickly realise, no, it's a load of garbage, this stuff, go through that same rigorous process you would with an indicator, and you'll quickly realise, actually, this makes a lot of sense, it's the fabric of the market, it's market orders, positioning is getting flat, inventory is going flat, new buyers can come in because there's no buyers, there's no existing longs in the market, when we go back to zero, new buyers can come in, bang, the market can go up, and look, it won't always come back to zero, you see here, don't think that it has to be zero, I'm just saying the flushing process, it will typically happen above zero because that's where obviously the market's net positioning is, so you can see it here, it came back to the 2,500, that's why I do like to have these lines, again, 2,400, 2,300, 2,000, who cares, right, 2,500, you see, this is the thing, when I have this logical conversation with myself, I don't care, I know incredibly, like, not only successful, the word I'm looking for is guys who throw a lot of size in these markets, obviously I know them, right, because I've been in the industry, people know people in the industry, and a lot of them tell me about this 2,500, but I never take anyone's word for it, when I actually sit down and think about it, it doesn't actually make that much sense to me to be so like, you know, rely on this to the sort of number, so for example, here, you know, I don't care if this had gone down to here, or gone down to here, anywhere in this region, actually looking at 2,500 as a number, it doesn't really make much sense to me, right, you think the market's sitting there thinking, the market orders, Delta is thinking, oh no, let me go to 2,500, of course not, it's ridiculous, right, it might go to 2,413, 2,400, you've seen it on the footprint, it's, who knows, it's a vast market, with vast numbers of participants, it's very broad, I use it because it's better than putting 2,497 on my chart, it just makes sense for me to put it, but it's very rough, when all these guys, even incredibly successful traders tell me, no, 2,500, it has meaning, whatever, to me, it doesn't, but the zero, on the other hand, it does, and the way that accumulative Delta helps us read absorption, read, obviously, people getting stocked out, all of that stuff, if you think about it logically, it just makes a lot of sense, and that's why it gives edge to me, anyway, I got a lot of edge out of this, so, you know, I know we weren't necessarily, we just spent five, 10 minutes there talking, but I hope you could see, it's really important to have these conversations with you, and share my sort of experience, that isn't just, you know, what you might be used to, oh, here's an example, here's an example, this is what you might do, this is what, no, you also need some experience and stuff, so you can see how, you know, my journey has been, and why it's important to do things in a certain way, and question things always. Again, you see the zero being used by the market to get flat, clear out any of these early longs, and then, boom, go up. All right, so, I'm just going to speed ahead quite a bit, actually. Really pleased, I'm going to review this back, but I'm really pleased with how this has gone. Really pleased with how this has gone. You know, the temptation is always there to look for perfect examples, but isn't, I just thought, let me just do a re-plan, just whatever, just cover the last month, and kind of just take it as it comes, who knows. Okay, so, obviously here, look, I know I'm not doing this in a different color. Six, wasn't it? Yeah, that's a priority area. Sorry, something's gone, something doesn't seem quite right to me, because that is, that priority area, isn't it? So, day, yep, makes a lot of sense now. All right, so, I've lost my bearings a little bit, as I did at the stocks, I'm fast-forwarding so much. Okay, so, this day was pretty, you know, you can see it here, pretty normal. Went up, I don't see anything in terms of order flow, necessarily. And in fact, that's what it was. Markets jumped so much, profile was up there. All right, so, okay, I've got my bearings now, apologies. Okay, so, that is another, we're going to now, in fact, let me do this properly, delete that. Let's move this up, or just move it up. Okay, resize that. Okay, there we go. So, that's what I was looking for, the value area for the previous day. So, you come into the market, where's your target? Up there, right? Okay, and actually, this is what I was looking for. In the back of my mind, I was thinking I wanted to really show these guys an exiting example. So, it's perfect, I finally found it, kind of related to what I showed you on the first slide, where I was saying that you may be close to a level, and then there's a lack of participation, and et cetera, et cetera. So, you can see it here, that's a really good example. So, you've got your target here, your hypo for the day is what? Obviously, breakout, value pullback, relative to this, right? So, you come in overnight, what's happened? Nicely aggressive, get long, and then look at this. And let me just mark this with my ray, because it's probably going to be easier for you to see this. Can you see, we made higher highs, but where's the delta there? Look at it. See that? No participation at all. So, I would exit my position there, okay? This was my point at the start, is that, you see, we're so close, why wouldn't you just exit your position there? They're a matter of a few ticks, all right? I know this has jumped a lot, so because it's jumped, obviously, several hundred ticks in a day, in tick terms that is, but usually in area, that's going to be very small, right? It makes no sense to take a risk and hold this right into the ETH close, because oil, honestly, it can literally just drop like that. It's too risky. So, it's kind of like experience as well, you get to know your market, but anyway, look here. Market had no interest in that push. Like literally, you're getting people net selling market orders in that push up. It's just a time to exit. So, you can see that lack of participation. That's where order flow can be really helpful. So, very difficult to see this over, you know, what, 10.04 and, guys, two hours, okay? Very difficult to see that on a depth of market or even on a footprint to some extent, because you'd have to have quite a lot of candles of a footprint. Just job done, cumulative delta, bang. So, again, I know it sounds like I should change my initials to CD, cumulative delta, such is my love for this thing, but I'm showing you. But let's remember, you know what I'm going to say, 5%, okay? All of this stuff, tick in a box, tick in a box, in terms of my sort of intraday, BVA, whatever you want to call it, and my context for the day. It doesn't matter to me, right? If all of this is all out of, I'm just going to go for it. It's just nice, obviously, to have confirmation, and obviously, if things aren't necessarily perfectly lined up. And it does give me clues. Don't get me wrong. Let me correct myself. It's just that I don't pay so much attention to it on a micro basis, which I want you to do. It's more for me. I'm just generally, over a few hours, I like to look at it, you know, over something like that and that. Give me a good feel for what's the sort of sentiment or feel of the market over half a day. You know, that's what it is for me. Just not necessarily so much in the entries and stuff like that, but I want you to use it to help you get into entries. And the way I showed you the micro, look for little opportunities. You know, even where sometimes you might get stopped out, that's not a great example. Look, it's never going to be 100% perfect. Otherwise, you know, the famous saying, you'll be on a beach. It's not going to happen every time. But can you see, if you entered here on the blue Heiken Ashi and you got stopped because you put your stop there, what you can do is you can look at the order flow and say, all right, is there any participation in that? Is that just a stop run? Right here, there was participation, so you wouldn't enter. You see, it didn't work. But many, many times what will happen is this order flow will be like that. That makes sense. And I'm not sure if I'll be able to actually find an example, but the order flow will continue to go up like this. It doesn't matter. I've showed you here anyway. You won't have any of this. The order flow will just go up and the market will make a lower low. And what is that? Lack of participation because the delta didn't make a lower low. Price did make a lower low. Went up. Lack of participation. Stop run, right? I'll see if I can find an example, but I'm not sure if I'll be able to. Let's fast forward here. We'll see. Yeah, perfect. There you go, just on the next one. It is not within the hypothesis, but it's a perfect example, actually. Let me show you. Okay, so let's say you got short here. Like I said, forget about the context and all that. I'm just saying, you got short, right? Got short, and then you got short, and then you got short. Got short, and then you got stopped out. Okay, because you had your stop above the high. Right? Got stopped out here. You got ticked out. You can look at the order flow and say, hang on. Was there any participation? Clearly, there was none. That's a stop out, right? That is a stop run. Regardless of the context, that is a stop run to VWAP, right? Hopefully, that's very clear to everyone who's watching this. It's a classic stop run. My point is you can use this to your advantage because you can see it very clearly. Price hit the tops. Did anyone buy into that move? No, just the people stopping out. I explained this in part one many times of this order flow, but that's what's happening. No aggression to the upside, no interest in taking this fire, just the guys that got short, bloop, they're getting stopped out, and then they're getting back in. All right, so I think I'm going to call it quits there, actually, because we're pretty much ... I hope you found that valuable. We're pretty much now ... Yeah, we're at the market. We're at right now. Let me just stop this market replay and let it just reset. Yeah, just final words is obviously I hope you found that useful. Hopefully, everything was covered there. If there's anything I've forgotten to mention, drop me a note, drop me an email, let me know. If you feel there was anything that I missed out on or whatever, and in fact, yeah, but what actually happened is just started getting clogged up again. We're now at the current part of the market, so pretty much I've covered the entire month, barring the last three days or whatever. Hopefully, that was enough for you. Yeah, another long session, but hopefully, incredibly useful for you. So I hope you enjoyed that. Any questions, obviously, let me know. Otherwise, do this as task four now. Sorry, task five. Beg your pardon. The identical to task four, bringing all the order flow stuff. Review it, keep going through it, get used to order flow. You're almost there, really, in terms of the education. Obviously, there'll be plenty of opportunity for you to get the screen time in and ask questions and things like that as we go forward. But yeah, we'll talk more in the next section.