Okay guys, so we're back at the banana market. Let's just back this up and remind ourselves exactly what happened leading up to the situation where if you remember, buyers started building up because they saw aggression coming, right? So what happened is we saw the supply being taken out at 11, right? And market buyers started moving up and then obviously started getting aggressive. So if you remember these two guys, they purchased two boxes of bananas and I said, look, either they need to buy more bananas or they feel they could make a profit and that's why they're buying more bananas. So more bananas for their customers, or it could be that they just feel they can turn a profit. And then obviously other buyers started seeing the aggression. So if you've forgotten all that, back up the video and go back and remind yourself, but ultimately that's what happened. So we were saying that at this stage, we could see that demand here was very much building up, right? Versus supply. So anyway, what happens, do you remember, as I've just said now, but as we were saying prior to revisiting, clearing the supply in the depth of market example, sorry, I'm just getting the right pen here. Guys, two of these guys, we've just said that we already know that they've purchased two boxes of bananas at 11, they're looking to get aggressive, they've probably got some client orders from outside or they think they can turn a profit. And then we've had all these other guys join them. So the market's getting really itchy, a little bit of time passes and like my boss used to say to me, envy, just pay up. The market's going up, pay up. So whatever these guys' bosses or not wanting to miss out on the move or whatever it is, basically what happens is these four guys go to these four guys. Again, they've seen that the market's getting aggressive. They feel that they just want to get in on the action now. They decide to pay up, guys. So I'm just going to make this pen a bit thicker. So yeah, so they pay up to $12. So guys, again, look at the aggression coming in, right? Would you agree if these four guys clear out complete supply, they buy four boxes of bananas at 12, huge pieces of information. Guys, can you see why market orders, and I did say I was going to repeat myself a million times, but that's okay. You see, it's happening again, guys. These four guys are getting short. Again, don't make the mistake of thinking it's only four people getting long. It's not. Four people are also getting short. They want to sell bananas at 12, right? They end up selling bananas at 12. But the point is they did not shift their price. It's the guys that wanted to buy at 11 who decided, you know what, we're just happy. We'll just buy at not any price, but obviously we'll buy at the price above. But that shows demand, guys. Demand is now exceeding supply again. So you're going to see four recorded in the box. This is going to sharpen the footprint. Guys, not even a single contract is going to be printing on the sell side, at least for the moment, because look, supply has been cleared out, so there's no ... It's unlikely sellers are going to come down too. So can you see the ratio? It's gone three to one. It's even increased four to one. And if you add these up, it's like, guys, seven to one. It's becoming incredibly aggressive, and that's why I love watching things like footprint and volume profile. You're going to see your four market orders print here, right? That's why I love volume profile, guys, because volume profile, it just clearly shows you. Look how the aggression is building up. We've had one. We've had three transactions at 11. Now we've had four transactions at 12. And showing that supply side, it's okay, but it just doesn't show you the same amount of information for time spent. And as you saw, a lot of the supply comes and goes. So anyway, these guys get cleared out, and we see this. So let's just update things and just prove it to ourselves that that is actually what's going to happen. So let me just quickly clear this out. Okay. Okay. Okay. So there you see the four produce, yeah, and the four in the volume profile build, right? And these guys are going to get cleared out now, guys. They came into the market early in the morning wanting to sell bananas at $12. They're probably quite happy. They got cleared out, and they can go home for the day. So we're just going to wipe them out, okay? So now this is where things get really interesting, because as I said, and you saw, guys, would you agree, we've now had buyers at 11 and 12. So the market's starting to get quite long now. Guys, when you see me trading in the Discord in the morning, this is exactly what I'm doing. Same thing that's happening in the banana market. Can you see the market's starting to get a bit stretched now? What you will typically see, you saw with the Eurodollar, that's why I wanted to show you the range of prices, it's a little bit of a tougher market to read in terms of the depth of market, but it's doable, it just takes a bit more practice. This type of action will happen over several prices in the banana market, treasury market, the nice markets to use as examples, because it will only happen over two, three prices. Very quickly, the market will revert back to fair value, which is something we'll talk about in the advanced course, but what I mean by revert back to fair value is, so people are starting to get along, they're going to start itching to take profit, so that's my point. So these guys, right, remember we said they bought at 11, and now, look, they bought at 12. This is the beauty of footprint and volume profile, I can look straight away and I can see that. It's also in the depth of market, but as you'll see guys, these will get wiped when we move back down. Obviously, they reset themselves. On a footprint, as you see there, it will drag on historically, you'll see historically those transactions, but anyway, for now, as I said, people get itchy to take profit, so what you're going to see is, and actually, it's more likely to be the first four, and that's because there isn't a queue in the futures market, so it's the first four that normally get filled, so if the first four decided to jump up and get filled, what they're going to do is, they're going to decide to sell out or offer at 13 immediately, so obviously they can't take profit immediately, because if they wanted to hit market orders, they would have to either sell out at the same price, so they're going to break even, but there's not enough buyers, supply of buyers in the market, there's only one guy, and there's four beneath, they're going to take a tick off, so what they do is, they just sit there, right, and they offer out, guys, offer to sell. So it bought at 11 and 12, and we saw a huge amount being bought at 12 boxes of bananas, and they offer, they join these other sellers at 13, right, so they can make a tick profit, so we're going to see that, so again, just clear this a little bit, I'm going to have to move this treasury market to the side, apologies, because a lot of these sellers are going to come in, into that area, as I said, okay, so there you go, so let's just remind ourselves what happened. These buyers saw the aggression and thought, don't want to miss out, let's just pay up, right, so they paid up to 12, boom, they cleared it out, volume profile bill, we saw the market orders build up there, we saw suppliers of sales getting cleared, nothing different to what we saw before, but now, look what's happening, guys, the market's starting to get stretched, we've bought a lot, and these buyers want to lock in some profits, so they go and offer at 13, now look what happened, the offer went from 12 to 13, because, obviously, supply got cleared, as we've seen before, now this is where things get really interesting, guys, and this is what is happening in financial markets, I cannot stress this, not only day in, day out, but throughout the day, supply and demand is shifting, volume profiles are building, and fair value is being stretched and being come back to, so let me show you what I mean by that, is, can you suddenly see that supply on the sell side has suddenly shifted, before we had a lot of supply on the buy side, now look, guys, you've got so many people willing to sell at 13, right, supply has suddenly shifted up, people are seeing this, so what actually happens is, okay, as we saw before, the bids do move up, but only one guy moves his bid up, these guys are watching that, okay, don't forget, everyone can see it, in the same way when I go to the depth of market, I'm going to show you, people can see it, the buyers can see it, so over here, these buyers, they can see, oh, there's a lot of sellers, I'm not willing to move my bid up to, I might be willing to move it up a little bit, this guy is the only guy that's going to step up, and that's going to be problematic for these sellers, let's see why, so, again, let's just move this market forward, okay, so did you see only one guy stepped up, guys, the market still went bid, just as, I'm not going to explain it again, because I said it in the, when the last offers got taken out at 11, market went bid, look, guys, the market goes bid again, from 11 to 12, okay, but, can you see now, there's a problem, there's only one buyer at 12, now, in the interim, don't forget, in a wholesale banana market, the reality is, and it's the same in any market, you know, you're always going to have outsiders, so, it could be someone from outside, who just look, needs to buy a box of bananas, no matter what, because he's had a client order, and he just needs to go, so, you know, guys, you've got to think about it in practical terms, and you'll see this on the depth of market, there'll be, you know, transactions taking place here and there, that don't necessarily make a lot of sense, because some people just need to buy, because they need to buy, so, that's why I put this transaction in, that you're about to see, where someone from outside, who isn't necessarily advertising the fact they want to buy, will come along and buy at 13, so, it's going to show you that here, will turn up, there you go, one gets recorded on the volume profile, and all you see is one seller gets taken out, that's fine, these things happen, it is a two-way market, and like I said, this guy might have just pulled up at the banana market five minutes ago, he just needs to go, someone's giving him an order, he just wants to buy at 13, and he's happy to get out of there, and as you know, that happens in foreign exchange markets, it happens in stock markets, foreign exchange markets, if you're going to go on holidays, guys, you're not looking at the depth of market you're buying, because what? You're about to take a plane the next day, you're just going to pay whatever price and move, so, same things happen, you know, for whatever reason, someone needed to buy a box of bananas, so, essentially, they've bought it at 13, but this is where things get really interesting, because look, guys, don't forget, a lot of these guys have bought, coming back to, you know, day-to-day traders, not necessarily day traders, but people who are trading, well, I guess it is intraday traders who are trading positions on a short-term basis, even though long-term institutional players will also be watching this, the point is, guys who have just literally bought here in the short-term, they want to take their profits, but the problem is, guys, look, they're starting to get nervous, because they were expecting a lot of bids to move up, did they move up? No, they didn't, only one guy came up to the bid, so these guys are starting to get nervous, because they need buyers to come and do what? Buy from them, so they can sell to them and take the profit, now, unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be happening, so, again, passage of time goes by, the longer nothing happens, I'm going to show you, it's quite funny, it happens on the depth of market as well, right now, you just won't believe it, because you're so used to seeing junk on your charts, guys, no offence, but you are used to seeing junk on your charts, as I think I'm starting to slowly show you guys, so you won't believe that this actually happens in all financial markets, is these guys will literally be sitting there, starting to get nervous, now, eventually, one of these guys, and I use the word puke all the time, he's going to give in, okay, he's got long at, say, 11 or 12, or let's say 12, and he wants to take his one tick profit at 13, and he realises there's only one buyer, guys, sitting on the bid, he realises if he waits too long, if one of the other guys hits 12, what's going to happen, guys, it's going to get cleared out, it's suddenly going to start moving down, and these guys are going to have to take even bigger losses, so what this guy does is he decides, right, do you know what, I'm just going to take a break even, guys, sapping all day long, as I'll show you, so what this guy does is he pays down, and he says to this guy that, you know, I'm willing to sell at 12, fine, have it, break even, so let's make that happen, and what you're going to notice, guys, is some of these boxes are going to clear out, okay, so you saw that one transaction take place, this guy's going to get cleared out now, there you go, and that guy got cleared out as well, which is what we'd expect, okay, because it's a market order, this guy demanded, made a demand for a sale, right, and did you see it got recorded in the volume profile, just back that up, there you go, see that went from four to five, and got one, so this guy got out a break even, essentially, but what's actually happened, guys, and you've got to understand this, is it's a positioning game, demand and supply, what has just happened, all of a sudden, all this demand we had to the upside, can you see how momentum is suddenly shifting the other way, and if you watch me throw a pound dollar at extremes, this is exactly the type of behaviour I'm watching for, guys, people that overextended themselves on one side, they're trying to take profits on the other, they're not getting filled, what are they doing, they then start hitting into the bids, and that forces the market to go down, guys, I'm doing this day in, day out, and it happens in a banana market, funnily enough, I mean, to me, it's logical, but obviously, if you've never been shown it before, then it may not make sense, but anyway, let's forward this example on then, sorry, I backed up too much there, so yeah, so the transaction takes place, and he breaks even, right, probably bought at 12, couldn't get the profit in, and says, fine, I'll just break even, and the market goes down like that, now there's a problem, guys, a bigger problem, it's the beauty of financial markets, and seeing this on the depth of market, these guys, right, in fact, all of them, they can see this happening, guys, it's like these buyers, if this was happening on the depth of market, euro dollar, pound dollar, whatever, they can see this happening, right, so they're going to start backing off, aren't they, they don't want to get along, they don't necessarily want to get filled if they think, oh, there's people trapped at the top, they're going to start backing away, so we're actually going to see, as the situation gets even worse for the sellers, because some of these buyers back off, they head for the exits, they think, do you know what, if the market's about to come down on me, why should I buy at 11, I might be able to buy at nine, let me just move out of the way for now, boom, so you see those guys, they moved out of the way, so what effect does that have, guys, these sellers start getting even more nervous, right, you've seen this, you've heard about this in financial markets happening all the time, people getting overextended, overexcited, and then suddenly, what happens, it's like people playing breakouts, right, they get excited, they play the breakout, they pay the worst price, and then crash, it crashes against them, same thing is happening now, all of a sudden, but you see, when you're looking at technical analysis and you're watching charts, you are fooled into thinking that it's those breakout levels or this level or that level that's causing it to happen, it's not, guys, it's this, it's real people being trapped, inventory, they're stuck, they've just bought bananas, they can't sell them because no one's willing to buy them at the price that they're trying to sell them at, so not only have they now lost the opportunity to break even because someone beat them to it, guys, look what's happened, there's no bid in the market, so these sellers, naturally, they're going to move down and try and get filled at 12, they're going to offer it out at 12, see if they can get a scratch, but guys, as I mentioned, the buyers have gone, they've got big problems now, these problems are going to get exacerbated very, very quickly, which is why it's a great trading opportunity, as you see me trading at extremes, think about it, guys, there's going to be people on the outside like me, I may not be in the market offering it out, trying to get short in anticipation of this, but I'm going to be on the sidelines, so not only are these buyers going away, guys, there's also going to be selling pressure coming in from people, speculators, who are seeing this action happen and really squeezing it, so people talk a lot of rubbish, let's be honest, in retail circles in terms of, oh, institutions are out there to kill retailers, guys, complete garbage, yeah, of course, there's a bit of cheeky behaviour going on, but guys, it's all towards the same goal, it's profit, so what do I mean by that? Well, if, let's say, you're an institution here, and as I said, some buyers disappeared, guys, did they do that to screw retailers? No, of course not, if you yourself think about it, you're sitting here at 11, wanting to buy bananas, and you can see that momentum shifting down, and you might be able to get them at 10 or 9, as this tide comes towards you, are you just going to sit there offering to buy at 11, when you know you're most likely going to be able to buy at 10 or 9? No, of course not, you're going to run a mile and maybe start to bid out down here at 8 or 9, right? So that's going to add to the selling pressure, because there's that much less supply on the buy side, so it's going to make it easier for markets to move down, is that retailers getting screwed? No, it's just buyers moving out of the way, you would do it as a retailer, institutions are going to do it as well, A. B, guys, what else are people doing? Well, they're sensing a trading opportunity, a profit opportunity, so institutions, guys, you see me do it in the Discord, where I get short, opposing to the direction of the market, so all these guys have got long, which you see here, 4, 3, we talked about this, I know these guys need to get out, right? So what am I going to do? I'm going to start selling as well, guys, more selling pressure. What do people think? Oh, retailers are getting screwed? It's not, guys, people want to make a profit, what's the point of being in business, unless you're going to make a profit? Happens in TV, shoes, obviously happens in bananas as well, it's the same thing, yet in trading somehow, it's the institution screwing retailers. Can you see what garbage people talk? It's absolute rubbish, all they're doing is sensing an opportunity to make money on the short side, so they're hitting bids. Yeah, okay, these guys that got trapped on the way up, they're going to get run over, but it's not being done intentionally, it's being done for profit. So I hope you can see there's perfectly reasonable goals and reasons why people are doing this. So I just wanted to point out that all those other factors are in play. It sounds like I'm just talking for the sake of it, but I hope you can see why trading is very, very difficult, because there's so many little nuances, three, four, five, six different nuances going on as prices shifting. It's not just one factor, one indicator, one crossover. Again, I'm sorry, but it really winds me up that people talk about all that stuff, because it's just completely incorrect. There's five or six real human factors going on that are causing this price to very much shift downwards. So we're going to see these guys move downwards, and guys, if you think it couldn't get any worse, let's just get these guys down. So these guys have moved down, these three are going to move down. Guys, as I said, people are sensing profit opportunities. You're going to see even more sellers come into the market. You see that huge amount of sellers now coming in, like me, like institutions, as I said, all spotting a profit opportunity. So we're not trying to screw these people here, whatever you want to call them, retailers. Some of them are going to be institutions that got trapped on the way up. Banana buyers, people that bought bananas too expensive at 12. We're not trying to screw them. We're just sensing an opportunity, and that's it. What am I supposed to do? Guys, this isn't a charity. I've got to make money for my time. When you go to work, do you just sit there and do nothing? No, you're going to get fired very quickly. Obviously, being a trader, and I think this is where people get a bit confused in terms of what the goal should be, should be treated as a business. And institutions are very serious. They're not sitting there thinking, let's screw the next retailer. All they're thinking is, how can we make money? And so be it. If people got trapped on the way up, selling against them is an opportunity. If there's a problem with that, people shouldn't be in the game. It's as simple as that. And if they think that it's institutions purposefully doing over retailers, well, they need to go back, watch this example play out again, and realise that it isn't. All it is is profit opportunities, people being trapped, they themselves want to get out, and the result is this. Look at that, guys. Can you see all of a sudden, out of nowhere, just changing the pen size again, what's happened? A huge pool of suppliers come in. Some of these guys, as we know, especially at the front of the queue, are trying to get out at a scratch. And as I said, this is why I gave this whole little speech there, is because I want you to realise that even though these guys have stepped down, the reality is, it's very unlikely that someone's going to lift them at 12 and they're going to get out at a scratch. I know this, other people know this, and we will start selling. That's why you see me selling on the Discord in the morning. As soon as I spot this type of behaviour, I'm going to be selling knowing that what guys, these few guys that bought the four contracts, the four boxes of bananas, they're going to have to start selling, which is going to start to snowball. So you see all these guys coming in, this is going to clear out now, and as I said to you, this is advantage of a footprint. On a depth of market, once it goes up and then comes back against it, because new buys could come in, in theory, there's certain settings that's beyond the scope of this. I'll let you guys play around with it, where you can change how and when this gets cleared out. But normally, when the market comes back and rolls over, the price is going to clear out. So let's just clear that out. Okay. Now what you're going to see happen is, just get rid of this a little bit. This guy, so he can see this, and I keep saying this guys, because why do I keep saying that he can see this? Because you can see it. That's the whole point of me even, you know, coming on social media as an institutional guy, because I want people to know, you can see this behavior. Supply and demand shifts is not something mythical that only institutions can see. Guys, we can all see this. I see this every morning. This guy sees it. So he's thinking to himself, oh, now the reality is starting to dawn on him. And again, I laughed before, where I said, you will see this on the depth of market, where people just sit there for a period of time, and then they'll start panicking. This guy starts panicking because he realizes all the things that I've just laid out for you, you know, that other institutions want to make a profit. Other sellers are coming in. Buyers are disappearing. He realizes if he doesn't make a quick decision to get out, someone else will. So what does he do? He pays down. He walks across to this guy, and he says, do you know what? I'm done, mate. Fine. Whatever. You want to buy bananas at 11? Yours. And he takes a loss. Takes a one tick loss, yeah, because he's bought at, as you remember, there were four here. We don't know for certain, but obviously, the whole point of trading is what? Probability. So we know the probability of that being right, because we've been watching the action on the way up, is very high. So this guy gets out of the market. He goes home for the day, licks his wounds, and says, fine, I took a dollar loss on some bananas that I bought. This guy goes home, and he got long. We don't know the reasons. Maybe he thinks it's going to turn around here, but whatever. So he's now long, and he disappears out of the picture. So let's get rid of these guys. I'm just going to clean that up a bit. So one gets recorded there, and on the volume profile got recorded, and then they're going to disappear. So before, when the bid went down, obviously, we saw the guys move down, take a chance for a scratch, et cetera, et cetera. Guys, this time, look, you can actually see volume building to the downside. And not only before was panic starting to set in. Now, because actual selling has come in, guys, these guys think to themselves, do you know what? I'm done. I'm done. And how many times have you seen it where your losses start to increase on your P&L, and you just hit out? Emotion sets in. Psychology sets in. So these guys are seeing now their mark-to-market P&L actually negative. Why is that? Well, they bought at 12. Where's the next best price? 10. Guys, they're down two ticks already. They could be three. It could be four. Mass panic starting to set in. Forget offering out at 11 for a one-tick loss. Just take the two ticks and go home. So that's what these two guys do. They come down, and they pay down. So what you're going to see is this one, it won't go to three. It will actually go to two, because don't forget that selling, go back to the start of the video, that selling was at the very, very start. That's going to clear out. But just to prove my point, the volume profile won't add one, i.e. one plus one. It will actually add a new two. So two new market orders demand, clear out supply. So you're going to see the bid drop down to nine, and obviously offer drop down to 10. So let's just see that. Now what I'm going to do is I'm just going to clear all the markings, because it is getting a bit messy. So you see that turn to two guys. And like I said, these guys are now over it. These guys are probably happy. They might have had some client orders and thought, all right, be nice to get filled, and they did. Or there could be people wanting to get long. We don't know. Doesn't really matter at this stage. Like I said, the trading opportunity here was to get short off the bottom. And it could actually be people taking profit. Like I said, there's nothing black and white in financial markets. But is there any black and white in wholesale markets? No, it's the same thing. The reason I keep repeating this is because I just want to ram home the point that financial markets are no different to any wholesale or any markets around you that you're trading. At the end of the day, we don't necessarily... If you're in this banana market, guys, the wholesale market, and you're a seller, and someone comes and buys banana from you, banana boxes from you, can you tell with 100% certainty why he's buying them? No, you can't. So why people are always looking in trading for the perfect answer for everything, I don't know, because they're living in dreamland. You're never going to know unless you get inside people's heads. All you can do is make an educated guess. On this occasion, knowing what these buyers are doing probably isn't going to help us. We're obviously selling on the short side. It's helpful for us to know the amount of supply. So that's useful, which we're going to see off at depth of market. Obviously, if there's a lot of buyers here at 10, and we got short, we might start to think maybe it's time to take profit. Again, it's beyond the scope of this, but just trying to slowly introduce you to some logical thinking that's happening, that institutions are using. They're not using anything rocket science-like. They're thinking just logically that, oh, we got short here, sensing, sniffing this opportunity because people were trapped. When should we take profit? Oh, when buyers come in. Guys, I'm pausing here because is it not the same in any wholesale market? If you sell something and you see a lot of buyers coming in, what's going to happen? The price might go up. Yeah, you're going to sell. But at this point, that's not the case. We see that there's only a little bit of supply in terms of buying at 10. And like I said, the sellers know this, so they just think, do you know what? I'm going to take my two tick loss, one or two tick loss, because remember these guys bought bananas at 11 or 12, and think, do you know what? The risk of my P&L getting even worse, taking three, four tick loss, is so high, I'm done. So as you can see, these guys are now going to get cleared out. And you saw the two print there and two on the volume profile, the market orders. So that's cleared out. So again, I'll just get rid of the markings. Now everyone steps down, guys. OK. But what you don't see is even more sellers coming in. It's still pretty well maintained. Yeah, there's slightly more sellers than buyers. It's still pretty well maintained. The reason being, because look, guys, how many people stepped down? Three. There weren't new sellers coming in. Having said that, at the tail of every move, as we saw on the way up, you always see, what do you call it? FOMO, fear of missing out. You see that. So that's what's going to happen here, is these two guys, they're thinking to themselves, oh, we don't want to miss out. So what do they do? They don't even sit there and wait. They just say, do you know what? We're going to wipe these guys out. So they take those two out. You see another two print here. Now, why might they do that? Because, guys, like I said, people are watching this. Have you seen how this is essentially what you'll see on a footprint, but it's also what you see on the depth of market. But in terms of demand, market orders, demand, let's see again to repeat that supply. Look what's happened, guys, on the way up. Do you remember? We had four, we had three, et cetera, et cetera, on the way up. Look what's happened on the way down. You've now got one, one, two, two, you've got two, four, five, six contracts trading on the way down. How many have you had on the way up? Nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing. As this move was coming down, you didn't even have anyone buying bananas on the way up. Guys, this was a one-way market, pure selling. These guys have seen this, thinking, I don't want to miss out, I don't want to miss out. Boom, and they just take out all the supply at nine, without even thinking that, oh, is it the end of the move? They're just acting purely on adrenaline, on emotion. How many times have you done it? Guys, there'll be algorithms doing this because the market's moving so fast. There could be institutions doing this, there'll be retailers doing this. We just don't know for certain, but obviously we can make a guess that it's one particular player or another. It's beyond the scope of this. We're going to talk about individual players in the advanced course, but let's just say these guys obviously got the FOMO and decided, yep, oh, we see all this selling in terms of demand for sales. We want to get in on the action, so you're going to see this clear out. Let's just clear those guys out. You're going to see two print here and two on the volume profile. There you go. You've got two and two on the volume profile. I'll just back that up again. You're going to see these guys clear out and these guys clear out. Now, one thing I want to say, which I didn't mention before as the market was moving down, but I did say before when the market was moving up is when the market moves up, it's going bid. I said on the way down, it goes offered. What that means is, I'll just quickly explain it here for the sake of completion, is where you see supply being cleared out on the way down and the bid moves down and then the offer moves down, what's actually happening is why are prices moving in the direction they're moving is what determines whether a market's going bid or offered. In simple terms, when it's going up, it's going bid. In simple terms, when it's going down, it's going offered. But why is that? Why has the market gone from 12 to 10 offer? Well, guys, who's driving the market? Who's in control? Market orders, that's what it comes back to. Which side of demand? Was it the sell side or was it the buy side of demand? Forget about supply. Yes, it gets cleared out, but who got aggressive? Which side? The sellers got aggressive. So we say the market went offered. So it's gone offered from 12 down to 10. And then we're going to now go to the depth of market. I'm going to show you this surge up and surge down. And it's really amazing to see actually. But the last thing I want to show you is the chart. Do you remember I was saying about the chart being at bid 10 for two hours? Now, let's just back up very quickly. OK, so what happened, guys? Can you see the market went from bid 10 to bid 11? 11. Bid 11 to bid 12, right? And then what happened? It started reversing, didn't it? 11, 10, right? And whoops, went a little bit too far there. So 11, 10, and then 9, OK? And then the 2 got bought and cleared out, and then it went down to 8. So what happened? It went from 10. And there is a purpose to this. 11, and it stayed there for some time. And then it went to, what, 12, right? And it came back down to 11, 10. Sorry, I've messed that up. But yeah, that should be aligned. Get the picture, 8 and so on. Now, it's a really bad drawing, but I'm going to show you this on a real chart. But the point is, because it looks like blocks, because there was such a long period of time between each change. But essentially, what has the market done, if you think of it in traditionally what you're used to seeing in a chart, is it's gone up, it's gone up like that, then it's come down, OK? Can you see, guys? That's what you're seeing on your chart. When you wake up in the morning and you look at your chart, it's this move, but on a chart, OK, guys? I hope that's clear. We're going to do lots of exercises where you see this, obviously. I'm going to show you side by side with the depth of market. But essentially, that is what you're seeing. So now let's go over to the depth of market. I'm just going to clear this out, and we'll show you the exact same thing on the depth of market. All right, guys. So I've just pressed play there, paused it again. And let's just remind ourselves where we are on the depth of market, because a lot's happened in the banana market since we last visited the depth of market. But essentially, the banana market got overstretched, right? And then it came back down and went the other way. So we're going to see the same thing in the treasury market. All we've seen so far is offers get cleared out at 28.5, and I showed you how the market actually ticks up. Let's change my pin here. Yeah, so I showed you how the market ticks up, right? So we saw it tick up from 28 bid, 28.5 bid. It went bid, one tick up. And we saw 229 contracts clear out the offers there in the same way we saw the banana market go up one bid. So I'm going to back it up. So I'll get back, and I'll show you exactly the same place that we were in the banana. So what happened? We cleared out the offers in the banana market at 11, and we just ticked up, right, to 11. And then buyers came in. Buyers started getting aggressive. And then what happened? Do you remember? We bought four contracts. All of these got taken out. And new buyers came in. Those got taken out. Market got really aggressive, right? And then these buyers did what? Started to offer it out. Go back and rewind if you need to remind yourself. And then you saw the buyers dry up there. So what we're going to do is we're just going to show you that. Okay, so let's pick up the action. So again, these guys, the equivalent in the banana market is these three boxes being bought out. 11 here, we saw 229 buy out the treasuries at 28.5, right? And then obviously we saw four come in at 12. So let's see that happen. Okay, so the buyers are in control here. You can see that the bid, at least in, you know, the near six prices, look at that guys, 152. The market's getting aggressive. You've got 100, sorry, 1,582, right? Buyers there. So as we saw here, buyers starting to step in. We've seen buyers step in essentially. So let's just continue the action again. Okay, can you see what's happening there guys? The sellers are backing off because they sensed the aggression because look what's happening to the bids. Do you see that? The front bids went from 12, so 1,500, 1,200, and you'll see them start to go up as we get more. As the buyers back off, did you see the buyers back off there? 1,100 guys contracts on the offer and suddenly went down to like 400, didn't it? Guys, that's more than half of supply just disappeared out of nowhere. They're sensing it and you as a trader got to pick up on these little clues. So just continue to press play here. So again, the bids are starting to increase here. So let's see what the buyers can do. Can they take these out? Remember the four took those out there. Let's see if these contracts can be taken out. There we go. So they got taken out, right? So let's see that again. So in the same way, these four got taken out, the boxes of bananas got bought because the market started sensing aggression. It started thinking, oh, there might be a profit opportunity here. I want in on it. So more buyers came in and took out those boxes of bananas at 12. The same thing happened here. Sorry, that's my dog in the background. Okay. So the buyers came in and they cleared out 29s, right? So you can see here now, guys, you've got buyers getting very aggressive here. Buyers have bought out 29s, but actually now what you're going to see in the same way we saw here, that people who bought at 12, they offered that at 13, didn't they? Looking for profits. So what these buyers are basically doing here is they bought the market at 28 and a half, 29, same way the banana buyers bought the boxes of bananas for 11 and 12, but you've got to sell them at some stage, right? So the treasury market, and it's a little bit advanced, guys, but it's also very logical for me to talk about this here. Look at the profile, guys. There's not been a lot of transactions taking place here relative to where we came from. Same thing here, guys. We're starting to get into an area, would you agree? In the profile, there's been a lot of transactions taking place around 12. So it's kind of like people feel comfortable in that area, right? It's where the market sees value. That's where transactions have taken place. And we'll talk about this a lot in a future module. But look, we're starting to get into areas that are extreme. And this is why profile is just a great tool. It's really logical. People call it profile, but it isn't. At the end of the day, it's just a ledger of what? Activity. There's no activity at certain levels. Clearly, the market doesn't like that level. It's telling you something. The market's saying to you, look, I don't like this price. I haven't traded at this price yet. So more than likely, it's an extreme. So these buyers kind of sense that. Obviously, they're hoping that some more buyers come in, so they might be able to squeeze a bit more profit. But as you saw, the majority of these buyers who got along here, they immediately started offering it out because nothing was coming in and buyers were disappearing. So we're going to see the same thing here. Just press play. So what actually happened there, guys? And it happened so quickly. When you've been watching this for a while, you'll notice it is sellers came straight back in after people bought at 29. So look what happens here. These guys bought in at 29. Almost immediately, sellers came back and sold at 29. So what's happening is buyers are already thinking to themselves, there's sellers coming in here. Sellers are interested in taking this back down. So I'll show you. I think it's about 50-odd contracts. 57. But here's the key, guys. And I know this can get a little bit complicated, but you're just going to have to somehow find a way of breaking this down into it. And that's why I'm going so slowly because if I don't explain this properly, you're going to be missing key elements. And it's really important I say this to you. So what I mean is, OK, so how many did you see exchange there? 57, right? We saw 57 contracts. Guys, watch what the number was on the bid against this 57. So the number of people willing to buy. I noticed it was more than 57. 150. This is one of the reasons why I don't really watch the supply column so much anymore. It's really useful, but it's also, there's a lot of fake stuff going on in there. And it's called spoofing. You're going to see a lot of stuff of this talked about in the newspapers. And I'm happy to have time-permitting offline conversations with people about this stuff. But because algorithms are now so prominent in the marketplace, what they'll be doing is they'll be playing games with each other on the supply side. You can't do it on the demand side. That's why I love demand in terms of the market orders. Because guys, if you need to buy, you need to register it with the exchange, it's going to show up on this column. There is no hiding demand. You can't hide it somewhere. Whereas supply, you can pretend that you want to buy, right? What's to stop you or me saying, yep, I'm interested in buying at 29. But as soon as the price gets there, saying, nope, I changed my mind. Nothing, guys. There are nowadays spoofing laws and the exchange and even the SEC, as you know, they're bringing criminal cases against people about playing games here. But it's very hard to prove. I mean, what's to say that you genuinely did want to buy at 29 and when it went there, you changed your mind? But guys, did you see how quickly it happened in a blink of an eye? It's clearly an algorithm doing that. What I mean by algorithm is someone has programmed their computer or they've basically programmed something to do it. So whatever that is, it's watching the bids and offers, guys. And I keep saying it, but guys, they ain't watching a trend line. They're watching the bid and offer. You can see it for yourself. I haven't photoshopped these numbers, made them up. This is the real treasury market trading on the day that I'm recording this. This is real people. So it's actually happening. So what happens? You've got 150 and how many actually trade there? Fifty seven. Right. Would you agree, then, that if there's 150 people wanting to buy and only 57 transactions took place, that only 57 people ended up buying? Do you get it? Ninety three of those orders, I hesitate to use the word fake, but they were probably fake or people changed their mind. And you will notice this happening at every level, but in certain areas is very, very prominent and it's obvious. And that's why it's a great place for me to tell you this, that I typically, as I've evolved as a trader over the years, I've stopped. It's not I don't think this is important. I think it's really important. But I've now started focusing heavily on market orders for this reason, because supply can be fake. Essentially, we don't know if it's real, is it not? Whereas people doing things on market orders is real. You've placed real money, real risk. You've taken risk. It matters here. I don't know what is real and isn't. I can make a very good guess. And yeah, I can probably make very and I have made very good money watching this. But I found over time is that by looking at just market orders, I'm now able to focus more on things like the volume profile, VWAP, et cetera. And guys, I just don't have a lot of time to watch everything. So I've had to decide what's priority, what's more important. And for me, that's the demand side, because logically, I know these are people that have actually transacted. Whereas as I showed you there, guys, 93 people just disappeared out of nowhere. So clearly, they were doing that to create a false sense of support, security. So that doesn't mean that you're off the hook, guys, and you can just not watch this. No. I might have watched this for six months to a year without charts. You don't need to do that. But you need to do this for two to three weeks, because you need to understand how depth works and how depth is affecting the market and how the volume profile is building from scratch and what is making it build. You need to do it for two, three weeks, and you'll be perfectly positioned then to understand things like footprint, volume profile much better and VWAP as well, which is a bit more advanced than volume profile. So I'm sorry I'm giving you a speech, but I just realized this is an absolute perfect time for me to say this, because I just noticed some games going on there with the bids and offers. So let's just continue this. Anyway, I'll just get rid of that. So anyway, these buyers, right, they've seen these sellers come in, A. But you see how I noticed it, guys? Do you think if I noticed it, there aren't other institutions out there that have noticed this? Guys, every single institutional player that matters in this market, same in euro dollar, same in pound dollar, same in S&P 500, same in oil, any person making money in this market would have noticed that, at least on an intraday basis. They would have spotted that. I've spotted it. They're all thinking the same thing that I am, guys. So what they're thinking is, oh, those buyers, maybe some of these are fake as well. Maybe that buying isn't as strong as it was supposedly before. So what you can also notice is, as we see here more offers coming, look, guys, 1,200 offers there. It's the biggest amount of offers anywhere up until there. See, that's fake. 1,700, I can assure you when we get to that price, those 1,700 will disappear. And those guys are just there because it's near the top of the market. And it's just a phenomenon that you'll always see, that people love to leave orders near highs and lows. And then they'll just pull them as you get up there. But again, beyond the scope of this. So I know it's a lot to take in, but I can't just skip bits. But guys, I've got to point out everything I'm noticing, so you can keep replaying this in your own time. So let's just play this one anyway. As I said, the buyers are getting nervous. And look what's happening there again with sellers. See, there's only 262 on the offer there. There's 1,200 there. Let's see what happens. So the reason I said there was only 200 and the increase, see, this is the thing, guys. I've seen this more times than I've had hot dinners. I've seen this so many times. I kind of anticipated that those offers were going to increase from 200. Because what's happening is selling pressure is starting to build. As I said here, because it's a treasury market, it's a bit of a slower market, it took a bit of time for that 200 to build up to 1,000. That's why I just went silent for a bit. And so like I said, I anticipated that that was going to go up because, guys, where's the buying? What just happened there? You see here, we bought four bananas, we bought three bananas, and then barely anything happened at 13, right? Do you remember I said the sellers are getting nervous because no one is doing what? Lifting their offers. Go back if you need to rewind it. And I said it many times. These guys are sitting here waiting in the hope that someone's going to hit them, basically lift their offers, i.e. allow them to get short, right? So they're looking to sell out at 13. Guys, these guys who've bought at 28.5, 29, I can assure you some of them are sitting here. Sorry, that's a very thick pen. I can assure you some of them are sitting here at 1146 hoping to make a tick profit, same as these guys here, exactly the same thing. But guys, watch here. Does anything print? Does anyone come and buy from these people who have got a long here? Just like these banana guys were waiting for people to buy from them so they could get out of their long positions. Let's see. Does anything happen? No, right? So let's back that up again. Guys, it's a considerable period of time that nothing happens. See that? Nothing's happening, guys. And I kept saying to you before that I'm going to show you that people are getting nervous on the sell side here because they've bought. They're sitting there. Guys, people are long of Treasury Market. They're sitting there waiting to be taken out. No one's buying. They're getting very, very nervous. So then you can see that waiting to be taken out. No one's buying. They're getting very, very nervous. So then what did we see here? People then started going the other way. We saw one, obviously, outsider come and trade there. That doesn't happen in the Treasuries, which was that transaction there. But then these guys are getting very, very nervous. They've bought at 12, bought at 11. And what happens? They start taking. They start hitting the bids, don't they? They start saying, you know what, fine, I'll just get out of breakeven. 12, oh, fine, I'll just get out of that one tick loss. And then it just tanks, doesn't it? So let's see that. See that? That guy just took 12, didn't he? He took a breakeven. Then we saw buyers disappear, right? Then we saw people move down and what? Boom, that got taken out. Boom, those two got taken out. Suddenly, the market started crashing, right? So let's have a look and see that here. So first you see the offers start to build. Selling pressure. Guys, these are institutions. These are people like what I'm doing. Obviously, I'm not an institution. I'm an ex-institutional guy. But I'll be looking to sell here because I'm sensing an opportunity. Other sellers are coming in. They're sensing a killing now because these guys have got long. No one's buying. We're at the edge of where value is and people know it's most likely to go down. So what do we see? We're going to see these buyers start to take scratches, i.e. get breakeven. Okay, so let's watch that. There you go. Did you see that? 342 contracts. Just suddenly out of nowhere, because the sellers got nervous, bang, they just wiped out 20.5. What happened here? Sellers got nervous. Bang, they wiped out 12. Bang, they wiped out 11, right? This 342 got built into the profile. These contracts got built into the profile. So just to show you here, okay, look, 446 plus 348, right, build it up to 794. And then 442 comes in and what's that, 888, okay? Then what do we see? We see a bit of two-way action, which is normal. Like I said, people from outside can come in, buy and sell, whatever, for no particular reason apart from they need to balance some books, they got some client orders, whatever it is. Doesn't necessarily have to be linked to what's happening with the positioning. We see some small buying and selling happening, two-way stuff, right? So again, as we saw here, some of these guys came down, right? Some of them smashed 10, didn't they? Because they just thought, right, I've had enough, these two guys. I've had enough. I'm done. I'm going to take a loss. And what else did we see? FOMO. Okay, so suddenly the market's just gone from 12, right, a big 11 off of 12 down to 9, guys, and then down to 8 out of nowhere because of this selling pressure coming in and FOMO and people bailing. So let's see, does the same thing happen here? Sorry, I know I keep pausing, but we're going to go straight through it, but at some stage, but it's really important I'm pointing these things out to you as they're happening because they're happening so fast, I can't do it without pausing it. Look, guys, can you see that? 1,300. It's the highest amount of offers we've seen in the whole move, right? Do you remember on the way up, we had all these bids? Look what's happened to those bids, guys. Look at that. 1,600, right, at 27.5. Remember that. 1,400 at 28. Guys, look what happens as people smash it back down and start bailing. Do you remember what I said here? Where are we? When we were up there and the buyers disappeared, look at that, the buyers disappeared. Go and rewind it if you need to. And I said, you know, the seller's getting very nervous because buyers are disappearing. Look what's happening to the 1,600. Guys, look what happens to that 1,600. I'll just scroll it forward. Where's it gone? It's gone, guys. Do you see that? Buyers start to move out of the way because they are sensing this happening. Guys, you've got to understand, this might be the banana market. Both these examples are completely independent. I made the banana example. It took me five minutes to find this happening in a treasury market because it's happening all the time. I'm not making this up. You can see it for yourself. The buyers have stepped out of the way. That is why the price has ticked down, okay? So buyers step out of the way. The sellers on the way up are getting very nervous. And what did I say here? Institutions, et cetera, also sensing, sniffing an opportunity to get short. So they start coming in. That's why you see more offers coming in. And then we're going to see one big puke out and the FOMO happen in one go. So let's see that happen. Just a matter of time. There you go. 542. Okay, so a majority of these buyers on the way up have probably bailed now. They've taken a bit of a loss, right? Because they got in at, what, 28.5, 29. They're getting out at 28, same as these guys in the banana market. So they've thought, do you know what? I've had enough. I'm just going to take my loss and go home, lick my wounds, whatever. Here's where the FOMO comes in, guys. People want a part of the short move. And look what happens. Buyers have really backed off now. Boom. There you go. Okay. 1,000 contracts in total traded at 28. Half of that was probably people. We saw it ourselves about, what, 2300 on 28 and 23 about 300 on 29. So about half of that 1,000 was probably the people that got long on the way up, liquidating their position, going home with nothing. And another 500 came in and bang, they hit the bid and got short. Market orders demand to get short. And look what's happened, guys. We're starting to see volume build in this area. And yeah, it's basically fear of missing out. Now, we're going to come back to this. And we saw the same thing here, just to show you that. Okay. We saw the little volume build up in this area and FOMO as the market started to tail off away from that volume. So the same thing here. You can see on the treasury market, it's very, slightly different. Like I said, it's a slower market. And this is something that will come with time. You'll understand that the volume profiles on different markets are slightly different. So obviously on Eurodollar, which tends to trade over many more prices, you're going to see the importance of the volume profile slightly differently. But here you can see that volume profile is kind of like this. Ignore this for now. I'll come back to that. But then it starts to go up again. But obviously this area here is a very important area. And that's why you saw prices going past them, not much trading and then coming back. And then also this side, you're going to see it go past them, come into this little area where we haven't seen as much trading and then go back again. This may go over your head a little bit. When we go to the volume profile stuff, it'll make a lot more sense. But just remember this and keep coming back to it. Because this is happening over many prices in some of the markets that I'm trading, like pound dollar, Eurodollar, stocks, oil. This is happening over many prices. Treasury markets are a beautiful market, banana market, because it's happening over just a few prices. Think about it, guys. If you go to a banana wholesale market, local to you or whatever, and a box is selling for $10, if it suddenly goes to $11 or $12, you're going to notice it. You're going to feel it. You're going to think, oh, it's expensive. If it drops down to $8 or $9, you're going to think, oh, it's cheap. I want the box. You see the difference. Those prices are very close together. Whereas because Eurodollar goes to five decimal places, it's slightly different. So anyway, there we've seen the same thing happen there. I'm not going to pause it. I'm going to finish off the banana market. And then we're going to come back to the depth of market. And that'll be the end of it. You'll be glad to know. All right, guys. So let's just remind ourselves one final time where we are in the banana market. I know it's been a bit of a slog listening to all of this, but I believe it's been very tiring for me as well. But it's going to be worth it. And believe me, I just want this banana market to shut. And it is about to shut. I'm coming towards the end of it. But let's give one final push just to finish it off and remind ourselves where we were. So we had those last two FOMO sellers, didn't we? The fear of missing out, panic sellers who didn't want to miss out on the collapse of the banana market. And let's just remind ourselves where that was. Sorry, just a bit of scrolling back. So there's the two FOMO sellers, right? So they paid down two FOMO sellers, right? So they paid down, demanded market orders with the limit orders against the limit orders, the limit buys. So they sold, right? And they got wiped out. So they're now short. Now, here's the key, guys. Watch what happens. In the same way, do you remember when we went up and we had four here and three people buying and the market was starting to get overstretched, right? And what happened? Only one person was left on the bid so that all the sellers. Now, just to clarify on this example here, I know I kept saying that the sellers were nervous. What you've got to realise, guys, is this is a two-way market. So obviously, it depends on perspective. People might be thinking, hang on, why would the sellers be nervous if the market's going down? But don't forget, what I actually mean is those buyers who are now sellers, right? So you've got to remember that those guys offered out. Do you remember? There were a few here and then they suddenly started offering out. So from that perspective is what I mean that the sellers are getting nervous. All that's happening here is it's the reverse, guys. Over here, the market got stretched on the way up. Look what's happened on the way down, guys. The market's just got stretched on the way down in the same way. So almost what you could think is some of these sellers are starting to bid out, whereas these buyers started to offer out on the way up over like this. I haven't actually drawn them in or shown the stick then, but probably you'll see some bids coming around here because these FOMO sellers realise, oh, maybe we made a mistake. They come to their senses. Emotions calm down and they think, all right, let's just see if we can get a quick tick out of it because obviously they sold at 9. Let's see if we can buy back at 8, right? So that's all that's happening. And you can see here the imbalance, guys. 2, 4, 5, 6 have sold on the way down without even one box of bananas being bought on the way up. I mean, it's pure selling, right, as we said before. And I did mention this before on the video, but you'll see this on the footprint. Look, guys, 1,000 contracts sold, no one bought. 93 contracts sold. We know no one bought. That buying was on the way up before it came down. So same thing. And you'll see this on the footprint. That's why I say I like the market order demand columns. So anyway, let's come back to finish off the banana market. So the key thing here is, as when we went up, the buyers were hoping for what? Bids to follow, the market to continue. These sellers are hoping for the offers to follow. But, guys, only one offer at 9, right? Do you remember the fact that these guys had pushed the market down so they're obviously hoping for this to go down and hoping for what? Let's draw it in here. More offers to come down, guys. Why? What are they actually hoping for? They're hoping for these guys to hit into the bid so they can take their tick profit. OK, so I'm just going to clear this out. One second. OK, so only one offer comes down. Then, just like on the way up, buyers started disappearing because they started seeing this. They started seeing, right, that there was only what? One bid at 12, I believe it was. Look, guys, there's only one offer at 9. These sellers are starting to think, hang on a minute. The market could be turning around here. I don't want to get too aggressive with my offering. So they disappear. Guys, don't forget, this has a knock-on effect. Like I said, these guys are seeing it. So when I say buyers here are getting nervous, I don't actually mean new buyers. Obviously, new buyers are going to be happy at seeing that. It's just kind of a perspective thing. So same here. Don't get too confused in the example where I said sellers are getting nervous. When I say buyers are getting nervous here, all of a sudden, buyers are getting nervous here. All I mean is these FOMO sellers are now buyers, aren't they? If you're short, you become a buyer because you have inventory to liquidate. So you naturally become a buyer. So these buyers, would you agree, they get nervous because they're watching this. They've just got short, and they're thinking, oh, there's no more sellers left. Where's all the sellers gone? Can you see, guys, the dynamic, how quickly it can change a market? But what we really want you to notice is, look, the profile's built. Where is all the transactions taking place? Guys, around this area. Look where we are now. We're outside. We're at an extreme. This is why I say profile is, in my opinion, one of the best tools, because it kind of helps you visualize where fair value, we call it fair value, is to do with ultra-market theory we're going to talk about in the advanced course. I just want you to start to see why I've spent so long on the depth of market, because it's these market order transactions that are coming in demand that tells us where is the demand. Well, we can see. Where's demand in the banana market? Around here, isn't it? That's where fair value is. So as soon as you start coming down, what happens? We're getting outside. These sellers start stepping away, because they can probably see that as well. But more importantly, they can see that only one offer came down. People are probably getting overstretched and what? Short. They've got short positions they need to liquidate on the way back up. So all you actually see is one guy come down. Now, as you also saw, kind of a side point here, at 13, one guy came from outside the market and had a box of bananas to buy. Guys, same thing happens here. I'll put it into this example just so you can see it happens at extremes sometimes. We might get a random trade happening in the sense that someone came and they needed to sell a box of bananas. I don't know. It's completely plausible, right? They may have bought some in the morning or whatever the case was, delivered them to all their customers or sold them somewhere else to consumers, whatever the case was. They might have some spare stock. Guys, it's coming towards the end of the day in the banana market. They can't be bothered to wait and see what happens. They're happy to just ... They've made their money on all their other boxes and they think, do you know what? I'll just get rid of this. Where's the price? It's currently at where? The bid's at eight. I've got to get rid of this box of bananas. Let me just get rid of it. So you see that happening here. So let me just ... So what are you going to see? A market order coming. One, there you go, on the volume profile. And then obviously one of these guys will disappear. There you go. But look guys, again, look at this profile. It's really starting to build. Profile's starting to build and it's ... See, people are starting ... What it is, it's not only you and I that will see this, and this is good for us. Every institution, every single person who is trading the treasury market, who is consistently profitable, I can assure you, bar none, they are looking at this. Guys, everyone wants to know, where's the fair value? I've talked about this with you guys on some of the Instagram TV videos. How many times have we looked at profile and said, Amazon, you're buying and selling something on Amazon, where's the value in that? Guys, you're doing it every day. When you buy something on Amazon, do you not see, where's it been trading all year? If you want to buy, I don't know, a mobile phone, or you want to buy a stereo player, or ... I'm lost for examples right now, because there's so many. Whatever it is you're buying, let's say you're buying a mobile phone, for example, off Amazon, and it's been trading at $100 all year round, do you agree? That's going to be the volume profile, which is going to be centered around $100. If it suddenly drops, right guys, to $80, guys, there's not much transactions taking place there. Why? Because everyone's going to come in and suddenly buy it and take it back up, and same with the other side. If it goes too far above $100, let's say it goes to $120, $130, $140, people are going to come and sell it. Guys, no different in the banana market, in the treasury market, euro dollar, pound dollar, S&P, oil, any single asset class you name me, that is how it works. The reason I keep repeating this is because I want you to see the same dynamic is starting to occur in the banana market. We're really seeing this profile come in. What you're going to see is now, people realize this, they're looking at this, they've got a feel for it. Oh, bananas have been trading today, where? Around $10, $11, $12. Hang on, I can now buy bananas at $9, or I can sit on the bid at $8. Bargain, I might be able to get in. What you're going to see now is lots of buyers come in. You see one there, obviously gets cleared out, everything gets cleared out. You're now going to see, obviously someone snaps that seller up straight away because they're watching this happening on the profile. You see that seller get snapped up straight away. There's that one transaction at $9. This guy will get cleared out. Market starts to move up. Don't forget also, guys, I know it seems like a lot to take in, but you're just going to have to accept there's a lot of things going on. It's no different than it was on the way up, where these sellers started getting nervous and thinking, let me just liquidate my position for a scratch, for a break even. Let me just take a one tick loss, so on and so forth. Now, remember all these FOMO sellers from the other side, guys. Look, they're just sitting here. In the same way we had these, that's why I kept these little lines up here, the sellers up there, these FOMO sellers have now become buyers. In the same way the sellers were getting nervous thinking, oh, I can't even get a break even. I can't do this. I'm just going to start hitting it. Okay, these guys do step up one, but at the end of the day, guys, it's more hope than anything else. Same as the other guys, because more buyers are going to be coming in now. Okay, there you go. Those three guys stepped up, but almost immediately without waiting, because of course, they now realize what? They're already offside on their P&L. They just wiped these guys out very, very quickly. So you see the FOMO sellers here, taking a tick loss. Same thing that you saw some of the buyers here taking a tick loss. These guys are taking a tick loss. So let's just record that transaction as two market orders. They pay up. All right, there you go. And now guys, I just want to clear this. So they buy two here. These two guys do get cleared out, but what you're actually going to see here is the market suddenly just becomes very even. Why is that? Because look at this profile, guys. Where are we? Would you agree a lot of buying was taking place around 10, 11 this morning? A lot of selling was taking place around 11 and 12. So what we've got to realize, guys, is people are happy to trade bananas around 10 and 11. That's the price. When we opened the banana market, where were we trading? About 10, 11 dollars. When we went above it towards like 11, 12, 13, what happened? The market didn't like it, and it came straight back down. When we went below 10, 11, 12 to like 8, 9, what's happened? The market's gone straight back up. Guys, the market prefers and likes this price around 10, 11. How often do you see this? You see it on, I keep saying Amazon, but it's true. Products will be trading all year round around the price, I'll say 100 dollars. If they go up too much, and Amazon's algorithm is measuring demand and supply all the time, isn't it? What happens? The price comes back down. So if a good is trading on Amazon around 100 dollars all year round, pair of trainers, whatever, and they start putting the price up, there's not much demand. What do they do? They bring it back down. If it goes too low, a lot of people buy it, they bring it back up. Guys, that is what's happening in every single market around the world on a daily basis. In every part of the world, be it electronic, not electronic, human beings trading with each other, there's a fair value where transactions take place. If you move too far away from that, you revert back to it. Now obviously value will change over time, and there'll be new profiles as you've seen. But that's obviously auction market theory, and we'll talk about that another time. But my point is only this. Everyone is seeing, oh, there'll be a lot of people willing to sell at 11 because they think it's fair. There'll be a lot of people willing to buy at 10. There's no edge here. So what you're going to see is, you're going to see a very even market all of a sudden. Sellers came in, buyers came in, people are happy to transact with each other. It's a happy marketplace. And basically, what you're going to see is a lot of just transactions continue. You'll see this when you start watching the depth of market. And this is why professional firms have you watching this thing all day long, because what they want you to see is that build up. So you see, I'm just doing this because I want you to see the volume profile, how it just built throughout the day. Look, it was nothing. Price went up, price came down, and then price went up again. See, that's how the profile built, and that's why I've labelled this volume profile. They want you, professional firms, when they train you up, they want you to watch the building and how this profile built. Guys, on a chart, what does that look like? You start at 10 bucks. You may trade a little bit around there. Then you go up. Market doesn't like you. Come back down. Then you trade some more around here. Then you go down. Don't trade much. Then you come back up, and then you just end the day around there. Guys, where's all the trading taking place? Look. In this region, right? 10, 11. I don't need a chart to tell me that that's what the profile looks like. I can see there's been very little trading here, very little trading there, and there's been loads of trading here. So my profile looks like that. And that's why charts, they're okay, but they're not the be-all and end-all, is my point. People are making more money than you would believe by just watching the depth of market, not watching charts. I like to watch charts because I like to use volume profile and VWAP and moving volume profile, and there's many different ways of doing it. I've obviously evolved now, and like I said, to make money just off the depth of market is now a lot more difficult because, like I was saying before, the bids and offers, the supply is very fake these days. There's a lot of spoofing going on, and it's not a bad thing. It's just that it's more beneficial for algo-type trading, automated trading. If you're a discretionary trader like you and I, where you're making decisions based on discretionary factors, then VWAP, volume profile, and the market orders are going to be much better for you. If you're an automated machine and you can, in the blink of an eye, see what supply is changing, demand is changing, and make those decisions very quickly, fine. But 10 years ago, the market was different. There wasn't so many automated machines faking each other out, so it was a lot easier for the human brain to be able to do it. Nowadays, it's a lot more difficult, and that's why I've moved away from that. But to be honest, I find VWAP volume profile much better anyway because you end up picking up 10 pieces of information rather than just two, three, or four. But that's a topic for another day. I just want to show you how the volume profile is built. That's where this concludes. I'm just going to strip out the volume profile here Okay, so you can see it. Let me just move this to the side. What I want you to see, guys, is how this volume profile is no different to any other volume profile in the financial market. So I'm just going to get rid of this. So yeah, so sorry, what I was saying before is that obviously when we get around fair value, you'll see a lot of trade taking place around there. People are happy. 10, 11, 10, 11, they'll trade all day around these prices. They're happy. So that's why there you can see I've just put in a little bit more volume around there. And then look, can you see the similarity, guys? US Treasuries, S&P 500. Look, guys, pound dollar, exactly the same thing. This market was very happy to trade around here. And can you see my point before? Sorry, this is Eurodollar as well. You see a nice little bit of volume being built in this region. This was my point that I was trying to make earlier is treasuries, like the banana market, may trade in a very narrow range for a whole day and build value, build volume, build transactions around that area. Just like a product in Amazon may only trade around, you know, $10, $11, $8, sorry, $9, $10, $11 all day long, all year round. It's very rare that it will go outside of that range. The thing about thinner markets, and also it's not only thinner markets, but where there's obviously more increments. If you think of Eurodollar, it goes to five decimal places. So all you're seeing, let's say in the treasury, you see over three prices. As we saw in the banana market, we saw over three, four, five prices. Amazon, you may see over a few prices. On Eurodollar, guys, you're seeing over a whole bunch of prices. It's not different. You just got to get your head around it, that buying and selling in the manner we saw in the treasury market and the banana market, rather than it, you know, slipping a couple of price levels, you might see it slip five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10 price levels easily, as I showed you on the Eurodollar video, then it'll come back. It'll just come back that many more levels. So it is just a relative thing. And that comes as you become a more advanced trader. So when you're put on a depth of market in a proprietary professional trading firm, I'm going to start you off on easier markets and then obviously build you up to thinner markets once you've spotted the patterns taking place. So that's volume profile. I'll probably have a little quick summary at the end in another slide. And then that's pretty much going to be it for the beginners module. And then obviously, as we go into the advanced module, I'm probably going to start off with, I wanted to start off with, obviously, we're ending volume profile and start off with volume profile. But what I actually want to do is I've had a bit of a change of heart. I'm going to start you guys off with the footprint. And then because what it is, is volume profile, I want to go into the standard deviation, normal distribution curves. And that's quite a large topic. So what I'd rather do is just get footprint out of the way so I can get you guys watching footprint as well as watching depth of market. Start watching this stuff. It's going to be great for your learning of how volume profiles are built. And then I will move on to volume profiles. So hope you've enjoyed that. I'm just going to let the treasury market play out now so you can see what we were looking at towards the end of that, where we saw the banana market come back to the mean. And then that's it. And yeah, so I'll see you in a second. All right, guys. So as discussed, we're just going to finish off the last bit, the selling move, reverting back to the mean. So I've brought this across just because it's easier for me. I hope you don't mind for me to just control this because the webcam is in front of this bar and I need to play around with it. But let's just remind ourselves what happened was the FOMO sellers came in. I'm not going to spend as much time as I did on the way up on this because video is obviously already long enough. And I think the examples have shown what I need to show. But I'm just going to let this play out. But to do that, again, just remind you what exactly it was that had happened. So if you remember, the last part was we've just seen it. The FOMO sellers had come in, right, because they didn't want to miss out on the move. And then very quickly, the market reverted. So I'm just going to show you the same thing happening here. So there, if you remember, go and rewind and watch it again if you need to. But those were the FOMO sellers that we saw and also, obviously, the longs that had liquidated. So I will just back this up for a second so I can remind you of that. Right, so that was the longs that liquidated. Let it play. Boom, we see the sellers come in at 28. Right, there's the FOMO sellers. Guys, look what happens immediately. This time it happens immediately. And also watch this. What did I say to you? Value is building. So previous value was So previous value was around here. Look what happens here, guys. The area in which we've been trading treasuries. And let me just put this in 27, 27 and a half, 28, 28 and a half, 29, 29 and a half. Don't worry about these increments. Like I said, I mean, I don't really need them, but just obviously to help you see it a bit clearer, I'll put them in. But when you have your own platform, you'll see them. So really, it doesn't matter. Makes no difference. I think it's just nice to have them for completion sake. So yeah, keep an eye on this volume profile. Green means it's the most, it's called the volume point of control. I'm going to talk about it in the volume profile section, but it's the most traded price of the day. Watch how it changes here and watch how these FOMO sellers immediately realise the mistake they've made and liquidate immediately. Okay. See that? So what have they done? They sold a thousand, realised, paused for a moment and thought, what have we done? Maybe we just got a bit overexcited by that move back down. These buyers simply liquidating the market got overextended and then boom, right? They've just gone back. But what you notice here, guys, is look, the bids and offers that we saw before, the change in supply on the supply side, where we saw the bids and offers changing a lot. Look, they're very neutral. Would you agree? They've suddenly become very neutral. Okay. Did you also notice, look, so that change there that I talked about, volume point of control, look, see, was green here at 26 and a half. It now becomes green at 28. Okay. There you go. 28. As soon as the FOMO sellers slam back in. Now, we don't know 100% that that is the same sellers, but guys, this is a probability game. Chances are, probably it's the same guys. Why do I say that? Because look, the market's really neutral on the supply side, on the supply side of the bid, supply side of the offers. Guys, it's very neutral. Okay. This is why I love market orders demand. And I know I keep saying it, great example of why I love watching volume profile and things like the footprint is because, look, I will see that on my footprint. 770 market orders came in. What does that tell me? Okay. Buyers back in control. And we saw the same thing on the way down where you saw the thousand and barely a contract trade up. Guys, it's all there for me. I think you can see clearly that, you know, whilst it's nice to have the depth, supply side, and absolutely crucial that you watch it and learn how, at least watch it for a couple of weeks and watch how the profile builds up so that when you come to, then drop it. Fine. I've got no issue with that. So like I said, I don't really watch this all day either. But when you come to trade volume profile, footprint, guys, your understanding is going to be, you know, better than a lot of institutional people. I know because you sat and watched this and built your understanding. I'm going to talk about this in the review section. So I don't mean to get carried away. I just want to show you that now the rest of the time, the market just is happy like it was in bananas trade around 1011 to continue to trade around it. So let's just let it play out. You know, for a long period of time, guys, look, it's just trading around those areas. It's happy. Nothing particularly exciting happening with the bids and offers, right? Look, some selling coming in. We saw some buying coming in now. Selling. Look where it's trading, guys. 28. Loves that price. Market is really starting to find its feet around there. And then that is the end of the video. OK, guys, so I hope that was useful. We're now going to do a review. Then it's the end of the depth of market lesson. But, you know, I hope you can see this is basically the underpinnings of every single thing I use to trade. VWAP comes from market orders, which come from the not necessarily the depth of market, but obviously what the depth of market is doing. Footprint, volume profile, even volume charts, which I haven't really talked about now. Cumulative delta. Absolutely crucial. That understanding is built from an understanding of the depth of market. Everything you do will be based upon how well you understand what is going on in a depth of market. Once you get it fine, you can drop it and move on to other tools. But, you know, to make that leap over, I think is very dangerous to do it without spending time here. Now, I'm kind of covering what I want to cover in the review, so I'm going to stop there. Well done for making it through. Let's do a quick wrap up review and then we'll very quickly move on to the next module. Cheers, guys.