Hello, traders. Welcome to Module 6, which is all about the footprint. So what I'm going to start by doing is just give you a quick introduction as to what you can expect in this module, and then obviously I'll split it out so it's easily digestible for you, as I've been doing in the foundation course, into separate parts. Now, so you see the footprint here. Essentially, it kind of makes sense, obviously, to start off with going through what is the footprint, and to do that, as I've said many times throughout the foundation course, it is essentially the market orders, right? These numbers you see here in each bar, these bars are no different to basically bars on a normal chart, a candlestick chart, except that they're not minute-based charts. But I'm going to come to that in a second, but the main point first, and what we're going to cover first, is what is the footprint? So as I said, it's basically market orders. So for those of you who've done the exercises and understood what market orders are versus pending orders, really going to be strong in this section. You're going to understand this stuff a lot better than those of you who've just skipped forward. So if you haven't done all the exercises, I would highly recommend you do them, because when I start explaining market orders in this section, you know, it's going to be difficult for you to follow along. But anyway, so we'll start with that, and I'll run you through an example with the depth of market side-by-side with the footprint, so you can see it is the market orders. And in fact, what I would say to you guys, you know, I always say this to people with indicators, you've got to, you know, people use these indicators all the time that you see on retail platforms, which you know, I have no time for those. I've already shown you through hours of content that they're useless. But at the end of the day, you can prove things to yourself. And my point by saying all of this is, don't just take my word for it that these are market orders, prove it to yourself. We're going to do that together anyway, but that's why I'm doing it. It's because I want you guys to get into the habit of proving things to yourself. When I show you that these are market orders, by showing you the depth of market, market orders moving with a footprint moving, and it will prove it to you that what I'm saying is that that's what they are, go away and do it for yourself as well. I'll talk a little bit about that anyway in that section. Bar types, honestly, I could write an entire course on this. It can become an incredibly complicated topic, but it doesn't need to be. All you really need to know, and I'll talk much more about it when we get onto charts, is that again, guys, unfortunately, especially if you haven't had exposure to some of the most consistent professional traders in the world, you're obviously not expected to know, but unfortunately, I have to be the bearer of bad news, and that is that the majority of institutions and professional traders, guys, we're not using minute-based charts. There's a reason for that, so I'm going to talk a little bit about that, but you may notice here, this, guys, is not a minute-based chart. I don't mind so much in the FX spot market using minute-based charts because volume isn't available. As you know, it's only available transparently anyway in a futures market, so when I'm looking at my retail FX platform, I've got no problems with looking at the minute-based charts, et cetera, and I'm not saying dump minute-based charts. Use them by all means, but you should be extracting a lot of your information as well from non-minute-based charts, and if you're not familiar with what I'm talking about, it's going to be a little bit of a ... It can be a bit overwhelming because you're so used to looking at one minute, five minute, 10 minute, or 15 minute, and then hourly for all those time frames, but what you need to understand is that the professionals, the majority of the time, especially if they're trading futures, not looking at that at all. In fact, this is a Renko chart, a full-tick Renko. All it's doing essentially is it's moving more towards volatility-based representation of price rather than time-based or volume-based, you could say, depending on the type that you use because you have different types. You have range, you have volume bars, and obviously you've got the minute bars as well. I'll talk a little bit about that and get more into that later in the course. It's important I mention that because on the footprint, you're not using minute-based charts. It would make no sense to do that, so I'll show you why that is. Then we're going to concentrate on ... At first, we're not going to actually ... As you know, I've developed this table, and you'll see why. It allows me almost at a glance to see what's going on on a depth of market with market orders really nice and neatly and quickly at a glance gives me the information I need. I've developed that obviously for myself. As you can see, it's a custom footprint. Obviously, I've given that to you in the template, and I may do a template section. I think maybe towards the end of this, I'll do a template section where I'll just show you how to load this stuff. Once you've loaded it, you will all have access to this obviously with the Pro Course. You won't be able to buy this anywhere in the market. You can obviously buy a standard footprint as you know. You're looking at $1,000 plus, so you're getting that free. I hope you can see the value in that. Also, I'm giving you this customized table as well, which I've built myself. That's not the point. I'm not here to inflate my ego because I've built this. Actually, the reason I'm mentioning it to you is because it's part of the syllabus that we're going to be covering one by one. Also, the second reason I mention it to you is because I don't want you to pay attention to this until we finish the first two sections. Then don't worry, we're going to come onto it. One by one, we're going to go through the delta. We're going to go through the delta change, the max delta here, minimum delta here, and the delta percentage. That's the only reason I mention this table is so you can see why I've put these bullet points. We're going to cover all these things one by one. Then finally, of course, I'm going to show you some examples of using the footprint, which come right at the end. Again, I'm going to split all these sections out. In this section, we're going to start off with what is the footprint. I'm going to prove it to you that it is market orders. Then we'll move on to the next sections. All right, guys, enjoy.