Okay, traders, in this section we're going to be talking about bar types. Very, very important topic. At the end of the day, it's not appropriate to use minute-based charts or candles on any type of volume analysis. If you think about it, the depth of market that we've been looking at, it has an infinite time frame. In fact, I mean, obviously it runs to the day, but it never ends, right? It doesn't... It only resets when you press the button. So as you can see, it's raw data in its purest form. It's essentially continuous, isn't it? It's just continuing throughout the day. It doesn't stop, start, move on to the next five-minute period or whatever period. It's in its rawest form. Minute-based charts are at the opposite end of the spectrum. They're very fixed, they're very rigid. Nothing wrong with them for FX spot market, great, but as I'm going to show you, institutions, when it comes to volume analysis, don't make any sense for them to be using minute-based charts. Nothing to do with institutions thinking, oh, retailers are all using minute-based charts. We're not going to use those. Not at all, guys. That's all a myth. You've got to forget about all that stuff. No one's here to steal your money from... Well, maybe FX brokers are, but the institutions, at the end of the day, just doing their job. They're trying to use the most efficient tools to make money. And as I'm going to show you, it's all down to logic. It's nothing to do with, again, retailers using minute-based charts. And in fact, nothing wrong with using minute-based charts on, as I said, FX spot markets. I'm going to show you why that is. A lot of it is to do with the lack of transparency when it comes to volume, but in particular, things like the footprint, as I showed you, it's cumulative versus non-cumulative. For those reasons, it makes no sense to use minute-based charts. You're not going to extract the most value out of it. So the best way is obviously for me to show you, but just before I start, I just realized at the end of the last section that it's probably quite useful for me or us to do together the same exercise we did on treasuries, but let's do it on an FX market. Because look, I ended there, except on social media, Discord, et cetera, et cetera, I'm using Footprint FX, and that's what's drawn a lot of you in. Now, I hope you can see that I've done my best and spent a lot of time to show you why it's not advisable for you to jump straight into FX. It's definitely not advisable for you to start trading live money until you've obviously got several months consistency on simulator. So be careful with what I'm about to show you. Please don't go out and throw live money at it, practice it, and in fact, complete the whole course before you even start going on the simulator. The only reason I'm putting this here is because I think it's fair in this section that I show people the stuff that I've been posting on social media, et cetera, so they can start to get a little bit familiar with it, but again, please don't trade live money. In fact, I would suggest don't even sim trade. By all means, learn what the footprint is, and again, I respect and accept that I do show a lot of FX stuff on social media, so it's good for me to show you this here. So what we'll do is we'll break down the depth of market, the footprint essentially, using the depth of market the same way we did on the treasuries, so I'll show you that in FX. Essentially I want you to see that the footprint is the market orders. It doesn't matter if you're trading tomatoes, which is obviously an off-exchange product, or if you're trading anything on exchange, even things like coffee, wheat, oil, stocks, currencies, whatever, treasuries, which we saw before, exact same principles apply. So probably good for me to show you for that reason as well, but again, you'll see yourself why I started with the treasuries. When I hit play in a second, guys, the market's just going to be flying all over the place. It's very, very difficult for me to show you on this depth of market as cleanly as I did on the treasuries that this is exactly what is on the footprint, i.e. the market orders. So if I zoom in, which is probably going to... Let me maximize this. It's only a one-minute clip. We won't be anywhere near as thorough as we were with the last one because I've pretty much shown you beyond doubt that is market orders, and you can see the price here on the right, and at the top you can see it's British Pound Futures, so it's GBPUSD, which is the cable, called the cable as well. So what I wanted to say is a couple of things. Firstly, I didn't mention it in the last video, so a good opportunity for me to show you as well that you do see I've put the volume profile on the footprint that I'm going to give you, guys. So you see it here and you see it here. It's exactly the same. You can see the high volume node at 124.30. High volume node just means an area of particularly high volume in one particular area. So 124.30, you can see it here, 124.30. Here it's helpful you've got the number, but it really doesn't matter. I'm only interested more relatively how big that area is. So here you can see it is the biggest area within this confined space, so it's the same, 124.30, 124.30. So I just wanted to highlight that to you. So again, I'm going to hit play, and you will notice that the effects market is pretty fast, but essentially it is exactly what you see on the footprint, the market orders. So do you remember how I said, guys, this is essentially the footprint candle, right? This bit. So this bit doesn't get recorded. Of course, it's important, but as I've shown throughout the foundation course many times, it's the market orders that matter because they're the transactions taking place. At least 90% of what is driving the market is going to be down to market orders because generally you get plenty of liquidity. Obviously, in the thinner markets, lack of supply is more a prominent factor in why the markets move so much faster, but that's obvious. That's because obviously there's less supply that market orders have to break through, right? So if I want this price to tick up, I only have to buy three contracts, don't I? Whereas in something like treasuries, I have to buy 500 at the moment. Once coronavirus calms down, it will be back to normal 2,000, 3,000 contracts. So much more supply that I have to buy to make the market move up. So thinner markets are much more volatile because of those factors. But even in thinner markets, in my opinion, as I'll show you later throughout the course, it's still market orders that matter, guys. Because fine, even if you've only got three contracts here on the offer that you need to eat through, guys, if you don't get aggressive and buy these three, is the market going to move? No. As you saw in the banana market, it doesn't matter if there's one guy selling bananas or 1,000 guys selling bananas. We talked about this. Unless someone decides to make the decision to pay up, as we said in the foundation course, price isn't going to move. That guy is just going to sit there. So someone has to get aggressive. So market orders are still absolutely crucial. So remember, this is going to be what is driving this market. So I'll hit play. It's just a one-minute example. You're going to see a new candle in a second. It's so fast, I wasn't able to obviously clear it, like I said, as I was in the treasuries when the new candle forms. You're going to see some volume on the new candle. OK, so you can see it there. There's already some volume printing before I had a chance to clear this. So I actually cleared it. I think I did clear it. There you go. So I cleared it, but it was so fast, the new candle formed. And I'm going to show you why these candles jump. Obviously, that's the whole point of this section, candle types. But for now, all we're interested in, again, is just focus on what numbers are you seeing being formed here. So at the moment, we've obviously traded some volume, as I said. So let's just pick the action up and see what causes these numbers to change. OK, so we're seeing market orders coming. So what have we seen, guys? We've seen, essentially, let's just prove it to ourselves that what we've seen here is just market orders. OK, so you see four people sold, right, at 124.37. Remember, don't forget, it's the buys and the sells. So sells here, aggressive sells and aggressive buys. OK, now, if this doesn't make sense, you'll have to go back in the foundation section and remind yourself why. These are market orders. So when someone hits the bid, what are they doing? Remember, you hit this area and you end up selling aggressively. So selling four. So there you go. Can you see it? It's there. And this participant bought one contract at the same price, 124.37. There's 124.37, guys. OK, so you can see. So we've proved it to ourselves. That's what printed there. Now, again, it happens so fast. I did notice here. You may have noticed it as well. At 124.38, we had two orders printing quick succession, four, and then now another three. So four plus three is seven. So that's seven here. Don't forget, guys, this is cumulative. And you have to understand this. It's really important for you to understand the difference between cumulative and non-cumulative with respect to the dome and the footprint, because that is why we can't use minute base bars. So I'm going to come back to it. Don't worry. We'll repeat that again. But it's one of the major reasons why you need to use different types of bars to really allow the candle to accumulate volume, because as you saw with the treasury example, it gives you an amazing amount of information. You get to see what's been going on over a period of time on the depth of market, whereas as you see on the depth of market, it's constantly clearing as you revisit prices. So you have to have a photographic memory, which is OK in the treasury market. But guys, I can assure you there are not a lot of individuals trading this type of market using the depth of market. Obviously, there will be one or two. And I showed you a big institution spoofing the market with 170 contracts. But that's very rare, guys. It's usually the odd individual or two. Generally, in these type of markets, it's going to be machines. And that's why it's useful to have something like the footprint, which is going to accumulate all the volume for you and make it much easier. And then you'll see the table below which I built, which is going to make your life even more easier. So anyway, let's go back to this example. And I'm just going to show you that four and then the three. So you see three there above the four. Three sold at 124.38. And let me just show you that. So you see it was four before, like I was saying, four plus three. So initially, we saw four. And you see that. So let me just delete this. So obviously, I've rewound it now. And I'm going back up on price. So it's actually there, 124.38. Can you see that? We printed four. And I'm talking about that four, OK? Just to be clear, 124.38. Now you're going to see three print, OK? OK, so this will clear. But this four will become what? Seven, because it will add three. It's additive. It's cumulative. There you go. Do you see that? Three and that changed to seven, OK? So hopefully, you're getting this now, the difference and how all the footprint is doing, guys. Don't make it complicated. It isn't. It's just adding up, i.e. being cumulative. What's on the depth of market? Market orders column. So let's continue to press play. See a couple more examples of that. Don't forget, this is pound dollar. So it's exactly the same as what's on the treasuries, all the markets in the world. Doesn't matter which one it is. It's going to be the same. So these are all adding, two, three, adding to what was there before. So that was seven. That was six. It went up to nine. Added four, 14, seven, two. OK. Now, you can slow this video down, replay it, whatever. Count what's been printed there, guys, and you'll see whatever was printed there will add up to one, 12, 20, so on and so forth. Again, because we kept revisiting those prices, do you see how fast it was? It was so fast in the thin market like pound dollar. Guys, unless you've got footprint, it's virtually impossible. OK, I showed you an example of how I was watching the depth of market in module four. But guys, I've been watching this thing for however many years. Doesn't make me better than you. In fact, probably makes me a bit silly that I spent, I mean, OK, I did well out of it. But times have moved on now. You can see the market is not what it used to be. It's not as thick as it used to be. These markets are, on the depth of market at least, heavily dominated by algorithms and so on and so forth. So that's why the footprint comes actually very handy. Because as human beings, we can actually take advantage and look for things. And I'm going to show you later when we just strip, get rid of the depth of market and purely focus on footprint. There's things we as human beings can do better than machines. But to remove the depth of market, I hope you appreciate. I need you to understand what is going on in the footprint. I know I keep saying this, but I don't want you to fall into the trap of how you normally may have been taught things. And I'm not saying all of you is the same. But I assume the majority will have just been shown some tool indicator. And I said this before in the last section. And you just learn to use it, basically, without really being shown that, look, this is what's going on. So that's what I'm trying to do. We will go on to footprint. I just want to show you, look, guys, don't take my word for it that this is what a footprint is. Look at the raw data and see what is causing the footprint to change in the same way that I showed you guys was causing market profile to build its market orders. So let's do one more little play. So a new candle formed there. I wiped out the data. And we just saw some more market orders coming. So let's just show you that. So there was 12 there at 124.41. Right. So you see it there, 124.41. And then those two there, two there on the offer, two buys, six sells at 124.42. Yeah. And look at these guys, four at 124.42. And there's five. Beautiful thing about the footprint is I know that there was five there. On the depth of market, do I know? Unless I've got... What if I turn my head for one second? I'm going to miss the one that came before this four. It was so instant. But look, the footprint, I know five printed there. And look, I even know a few minutes ago, we were looking at this candle that at the same level, 14 printed there. You see, guys, unless I've got photographic memory, I'm not going to remember that watching a depth of market. So I know I keep repeating the same things, but obviously it's for your own benefit. So you really get an in-depth understanding of what the footprint is telling you. So yeah, I hope by doing this, you realize or can see your understanding of the footprint, guys, is going to be up there with any institutional or any professional because I'm showing you the breakdown. So let me show you that five. There's four there. I'm going to show you that one printed before the four. OK, so there's the one. OK, so 12442. So let's just keep an eye on it, guys. Unfortunately, I was... This is pre-recorded. I was moving the dome about a little bit. But just keep an eye on this 12442, OK, guys, before those four contracts printed there. Can you see the one? 12442. OK, there you go. Two. So the one became two. Now, because I'm moving the thing so slowly, that's why it took... Do you remember what I said before that there's an absolute millisecond lag between hitting the depth of market? Because don't forget what's happening. The exchange is sending the information that an institution or an individual or... Don't forget in the first section, I said that there's no disparity or advantage to being an institution in the futures market. So we don't know who that was. Obviously, we can guess. When you saw the spoofing, 170 contracts, come on, guys, that's going to be an institution. We know it. We can be 99% sure that that isn't a retail participant. It's a big institution. Throwing 175 contracts like that at cable is going to be an institution. But with this, obviously, one, two contracts, even 510, we don't know. It may be an institution. But the point is this. The institution trades. Obviously, the transaction gets recorded at the exchange. The exchange sends the data down to the platform or via the data feed provider who feeds it in. The depth of market hits instantly and there's an ever so slight millisecond lag before it hits the footprint. But it doesn't matter. I mean, it's not going to make any difference to us. It might do if you've got an algo running or whatever. You'd obviously not run it off your footprint. But that's another story. We're obviously trading discretionarily as individuals. So for us, that time difference makes no difference. I just wanted to say that because obviously, as you saw, it took a millisecond for it to hit this area. But ultimately, it did hit it. So you can see that it's got two. Now, we're going to see another two or three. I beg your pardon. So three is five. So basically, what's happened there is it's gone what? One, two, then the two got blank and three. So that was essentially the incremental add that made it add up to five. So you can see, guys, try watching that in real time. Even someone like me who's been watching this for years, you saw I thought it was one and four. I didn't know until I rewound it back. But actually, now I'm realizing it was someone lifted one. They bought one. They bought two. Then the price did what? It went offered. And then it came back to four. That's why the price disappeared. The number of contracts disappeared. And then we saw another three. So it's one, two, plus three is five. So that's what happened there. And we'll just continue to go forward. So I can just show you a couple more examples. OK, so can you see that? Let's have a look at that example. Look here, guys. You've got 12 sold there, 12 sold there. Now, watch. You're going to see another three hit the bid at 40, i.e., sell into 41. And three plus 12 is what? 15. So again, a great example for me to show you how the depth of market is non-cumulative, i.e., it keeps resetting. It doesn't mean that different amounts of contracts have traded on the depth of market versus footprint. No, it's exactly the same. It's just that the footprint is recording it. Think of the footprint as a recorder. It's just recording everything, whereas the depth of market doesn't record it. It just gets rid of it. Three trade, fine, over with, move on. Whereas the footprint says, no, actually, that information might come in handy to me throughout the day when I revisit it. So let's see that three come in here. Yeah, 12. There you go. Can you see the three? And look at that, it went to 15. All right, guys, so that's plenty of examples there. You can see that market orders are all that's driving this footprint. And in fact, probably, let me just show you that the supply has absolutely zero effect. So you see that there's supply there, 319, for example, there at 124.44, which is, I see if I can show you how this has zero effect, the supply. And guys, you know what? I don't pre-prepare any of these examples. I'm literally doing it. So this has the propensity to go very wrong, but I prefer to do it naturally so I can show you that there's no. So 124.44, can you see that? It went from 19. It went up to 20. And look there, zero contracts on the offer. It goes up to 20. Do you see that? It went up to 20. Did anything print there? No, nothing. Why? Because there's no market orders. Remember, all we care about is this column. So can you see? There was nothing printed. That went up from 19 to 20 plus 1. Did it show here? No, it didn't. Nothing changed. Stayed exactly the same. Stayed at zero because nothing printed. All right, guys. If you want to go, keep rewinding it. Prove it to yourself. Do it on your own Sierra child platform. That'd be wonderful. Honestly, I would be very happy if you can go and do this yourself. Prove it to yourself. And like I said, you're going to have a better understanding of footprint than or just as good, if not better than most of the professionals out there. If you put in the time to understand it this way. Let's go and have a look at bar types, and then we'll move on to other footprint matters. Cheers, guys.