Okay guys, so what we're going to do now, as discussed at the start of the previous section, is we're going to discuss bar types and what I decided is because the last section was about 20-25 minutes, I thought it would be good to split out this section just because this might take a little while. It's not a straightforward topic, obviously you're not used to seeing different bar types, especially if you've focused solely on retail type education, then of course my guess is that, as far as you're aware, minute-based charts is all there are out there, but look, the reality is guys, as I said before, institutions are looking at a variety of different bar types and I'm going to explain to you why. I won't repeat what I said at the start of the previous section, but apart from the fact that, just remember, institutions are looking at this for logical reasons, it's nothing to do with the fact that, as I said, retailers are looking at minute-based charts, so let's do something different. There is a place for minute-based charts, in particular where volume isn't available, so let's just crack on straight away. What I could have done is I could have drawn a little table, but actually I'll leave you to do that. If you're making notes, what I would suggest is you can't with a little table. In fact, let's do it together here. The best way to start this off, guys, is to think of charts as, or candlesticks, sorry, to think of them as frames of reference, but we don't know what that reference is unless we specify it, right? What you'll do, especially if obviously you've had a retail education, is you'll just take it for granted that that frame of reference is a minute, or five minutes, or basically that it's time, it's minutes, right? If you were to draw a table, what I would suggest is you say reference, okay, so you draw your table, and then you have your reference, okay, so we're going to go, sorry, so this is the reference here. We're going to go through these one by one, so you've got time, right, you've got, let's do volume first, just because that's what I use for main charts, and I use volatility for the footprint, okay, and don't worry, this probably all seems like a little bit confusing right now, but once I've explained it to you, it'll all make sense, and I am going to show you a real example side by side so you can see the differences, right? So and then here we're going to have bar type. So when we look at the bar type when it comes to time, what type of bars, if, so if you think of a bar, right, obviously this is a candlestick, it can be a different type of bar. I really don't care, it doesn't matter whether you look at candlesticks or open high-low closed bars or whatever, guys, it's the same thing at the end of the day. My point is the reference is what drives the next bar, right, to form. So what causes us to move, this is the whole point of this entire section and why it's so fundamentally important, because obviously if you're using a chart, guys, you want to know what is causing the bar, and then obviously it can go down like this, right, so these are very badly drawn candlesticks, but would you agree that there has to be a factor in your platform that's causing this candle to change to the next one? So what you're traditionally used to is time, right? So would you agree generally the bar type will be a minute-based, yeah? Now that includes, so I've put here minute, that includes obviously daily, which I believe is 1,440 minutes, et cetera, so you can in theory split that down, so it's the same thing, daily, weekly, monthly. These are all time, guys, minutes, because think about it, a month has a set number of minutes, so actually on futures platforms a lot of the time people will actually put in the exact amount of minutes in a month, so it's the same thing, guys. We're always using minutes, aren't we? Whether you use one minute, five minute, 10, 15, 60, one hour, four hour, they all seem to be traditional. Would you agree the reference for, in a minute-based chart, is essentially minutes, the time in minutes for the candlestick to change? So for example, if you had a five minute, would you agree this is five minutes, and then five minutes later the next candle comes along, then five minutes, right? So that's what determines the changing of bars. Now essentially what institutions are doing, guys, is they're being smart about this. Very logical thing that they're doing is they're saying to themselves, hang on a minute, bars are telling us pieces of information, right? In each bar there's a piece of information. Would you agree that it's possible, it's within the realms of possibility, that this bar might give you more information than this bar? Or what I mean by that is this five minute time period, now again, remember, guys, this can be 60, one hour, four hour, et cetera, doesn't matter, might give you more information than this five minute time period, right? Logical. So I'm going to show you that and highlight that, and when you see it, it'll be obvious that that's the case. Think about it. Five minutes in Asia, would you agree, for example, in foreign exchange market, obviously it varied by market, there's going to be much less importance of trading in Asia, because why? It's a range trade. It tends to be very quiet. Whereas in London, New York, there's a lot of flow involved, huge institutions are involved. Each candlestick is going to possess more information, right? So would you agree that if we stuck to five minute charts, so let's think of it as also here, I'm going to draw the sessions, right, so you've got, let's say you've got Asia, you've got London, and then you've got New York, okay? Now obviously there will be some overlap between these sessions, but let's ignore that for now. Basically, we all know that Asia, at least in GMT time, tends to be overnight where it's very quiet. That may be different in your time region, it doesn't matter, ultimately it's the same time, isn't it? It's the same period of time throughout the world. When Asia is trading, would you agree the market tends to be fairly flat? When London or Europe opens, you tend to get some more movement, and then New York you get, not as much, but you get decent movement, and then it flatlines again, right, as you come back into Australia, Asia, et cetera, et cetera. So the point is, here guys, a five minute chart is going to keep changing candlestick regardless of the price action or the volume or what's happening. Here it's going to do the same thing, here it's going to do the same thing, here it's going to do the same thing. Can you see the problem with that? If different amounts of volume or volatility is happening, right, so this, would you agree we can characterize each session by time, volume, because let's go through them one by one. So time, same amount of time, right? So in theory, let's say Asia is about eight hours, and then London into the main part of New York is about eight hours. So time-wise, there's not a differentiating factor, but would you agree that, as I said, in each candlestick, one candlestick might tell you have or possess within it more information, valuable information, than what is in another candlestick. Now what is that type of information? Well, that's where we come onto these two key pieces of reference, guys, and that is volume and volatility. So can you see here, would you agree, volatility is not the same as the volatility there. It's different, isn't it? Volume, guys, is different. What I would highly suggest is you watch this for yourself. I've given you a quote board. You'll see for yourself, typically, for example, in S&P 500, you might be trading a million contracts a day, guys. You may only trade 100,000, so you're doing 90% of the volume in the main session, which is the same amount of time it took you to do 100,000. So can you see, guys, here you might only have 10% of the volume, and in this section or this section, between these, you might have 90% of the volume. But the candle, if you use the reference as time, would you agree, every candle is still going to... I'm not going to draw candles. I'm just going to draw a dash as a candle. You get the same number of candles, even if you've got a very little amount of volume. Because why? Because every candle is changing every five minutes, regardless. In London, however, you've got huge amounts of volume coming in, and New York, especially with the futures, like the US futures markets, like, obviously, crude oil and stocks. Guys, let's say you've got, and I'm just making this up, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Do you see? You're going to have 4, 5, 6, 7 candles here, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 candles here. It's going to be the same. How do you differentiate between that, that, and that? How do you know just by looking? Because remember, guys, when I said to you, we're moving away from the depth of market. We're going to look at charts now. This is why I've evolved into charts, because I've recognized that there's a lot of ways of us looking at the raw data, and we can use charts to our advantage. We're human beings. We're not machines. Let's take advantage of that. We're much better at reading charts than machines are. Machines are great at reading raw data. We're good at reading charts, so let's help ourselves. It's completely pointless looking at Asia, London, and New York. Look at them, guys. If I said to you, let's say you couldn't see this, and I said to you, guys, in Asia, there was 7 candles printed, in London, 7 candles printed, in New York, 7 candles printed. Without looking at a chart, would you be able to tell me what the difference was in those sessions? Nope, you wouldn't, because 7 equals 7 equals 7. When you use time as reference, it doesn't take into account volatility or volume. What we can do, then, is look at a volume chart. That's how we can start to differentiate these. Again, I'm going to show you this with real charts. I was racking my brains out, thinking, how can I show everyone, because it's not an easy topic. I thought, rather than taking screenshots, let me show you charts side by side at the equivalent times, and we'll get on to that, but it's important you understand this first. We've covered time. Let's look at volume. As I said, volatility and volume, you can't tell, just by looking at a chart, if there was more volume in Asia, or London, or New York. What you can do is, there's a setting on the platform, Sierra Chart. They all have them, guys, all the futures platforms, and I'm going to show you. There's a chart setting where you can change it from minute-based charts or candles. You can change it to volume. Let me pick an arbitrary number here, but obviously, well, it may not be obvious, but it'll become very obvious. The higher the volume traded in an asset, the higher you'd obviously set this for each candle. What you're basically doing is, you'll see there's a setting. You can pick 1,000, you can pick 5,000, 10,000. These are quite popular numbers with institutional traders when it comes to certain markets. Obviously, they'll vary. Currencies, I use about 500, and look, I'm sorry, guys, but I just have to be honest with you. You're going to have to accept, in different times of the year, different settings are going to be better. This was something that I found really hard to accept because it's hard work. I get it. It's hard work taking the time every three months to do research and try and calibrate your charts to the current environment, but guys, you've got to understand, this is why the success rate is so low in trading because it is hard work, but it's doable. Learn how to do it, and it'll become easier every few months when you have to calibrate your charts. I'm happy to help you. I'm happy to tell you what settings I'm using, but in volume, typically, like I said, I'm using 500 in currencies at the moment. I'm using about 2,000 to 3,000 in crude oil. I use a much higher amount in the ES, like the S&P 500, because it's a higher amount of volume traded. Why is that? Well, think about it. Let's just pick 500 because that's the example we're going to use. What that means is rather than every five minutes a candle changing, it just means every time the market prints 500 or trades market orders, guys, this is why I keep going about market orders, every time, and I'm not going to bother showing the dome of this example, completely pointless. You should have got it by now. If you haven't, it doesn't matter. You can go back. There's plenty of examples, and again, if you're stuck, just let me know. I'm happy to help. The point is market orders, guys, 500 market orders. We go on, which is actual transactions, so 500 transactions of volume, contracts, 500 contracts. Then we move on and we go another 500 contracts. So do you see, guys, if ... Let's just make up a number here. Here we've got minute based at the top, right? I'm going to impinge on this a little bit. This is what happens in minute based. Let's say we set it to 500. Do you see, guys, if five minutes now, we were saying these may be ... Let's just imagine it was five minute bars. I know that the periods are longer if you do five, because obviously five times seven is 35 minutes, but let's just imagine Asia was 35 minutes, London was 35 minutes, New York was 35 minutes, right? Could be an hour, whatever, but stick with me for this. So every five minutes, a candle is changing. Here, can you see, if 500 contracts haven't printed for five minutes, guys, the candle isn't going to change, and this is why it is very, very useful and powerful to use these type of charts, and I make huge use of them. As we go into ... As I go into showing you charts on the futures markets, you'll see all my charts essentially are volume based charts, and obviously I use the rain cove for the footprint. So again, each candle is 500 volumes. So what would you see in Asia then? Well, let's say only 500 contracts printed in the whole of Asia. Guys, what are you going to see? One candle. Did we not just say 90% of the volume comes in London and New York? So let's say that was split half and half. So we saw ... Let's say we saw 500 here, but actually we saw 5,000 in London, which is perfectly plausible. Actually, it's going to be much higher, but what I mean is 10 times as much volume as you saw in Asia. Would you agree then there's going to be 10 candles? Why? 5,000 divided by 500 is 10. So every time we print 500 contracts, you're going to see a candle, you're going to see a candle, you're going to see a candle, you're going to see a candle. So you can see there'll be 10, so 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Now of course there'll be movement, but my point is just for the sake of example, I'm just saying that let's say those were ... That was the movement of the 10 candles. Guys, can you see a big difference? In exactly the same time period, approximately, you've now suddenly got 10, and then obviously that will spill over into New York where you might see 2,500, for example, or whatever the case. I said we'll split it out, but whatever, you get my point, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, whatever the amount is, you can see the difference. Do you see now, guys, before I said to you, okay, I turned around to you and say, look, there was seven candles in Asia, seven candles in London, seven candles in New York. Can you tell me the difference? Can you tell me anything unique about those sessions? No, I can't, because it's all got seven candles. That was with the time-based, minute-based, because no matter what is printing, no matter the volatility, which we're going to come onto in a second, it just continues to print candles. Can you see? So it's a bit of a waste really, isn't it? I'm going to show you this on the real chart. Whereas now, let's say I say to you, guys, there was 1,500 contract candle printed in Asia, or a volume bar, you could call it, 10 printed in London, and five printed in New York. Guys, can you see the crucial piece of information? You're going to think, oh, the market was very active in London. Do you see? You don't even need a chart for that. Visually, when you look at a chart, it's going to be obvious to you that the market was very active in London. People might say, oh, yeah, I know London's more active. Well, how do you know? How do you know? Because you've read it in a book somewhere? Guys, don't believe everything you read in books. Prove it to yourself, because I'll tell you, it's not always the case that one session is always going to be more active than another. Let the chart automatically adjust itself for volume. So it's calibrated. It's calibrated. Can you see? Automatically, your chart is only printing when there's a volume. That's why volume is absolutely crucial. So hopefully that makes sense. If it doesn't, let me know. I'm happy to do some group sessions or whatever, and we can cover it again. Like I said, I think I said before, I'm looking to maybe do some group, maybe not so frequently or regularly, but one-off sessions where people might be lost with something. Happy for you to ask for that to be done, and I'm happy to go over it. But hopefully, if you rewind this a few times and see the examples, you'll get it. But like I said, I'm happy to help if you don't, because I recognise it's going to be all quite new to a lot of you who are so used to looking at minute-based charts. Can take a bit of getting your head around, right? So that's volume, guys. Absolutely crucial. And I'll show you why I like to look at volume on my longer term. So I don't mean longer term, but what I mean is when I'm looking at more than just footprint, because footprint is quite microscopic. I'm looking for entries, et cetera, so I like to really dig in. But obviously, with my broader timeframes, I like to use... So my point is, with the footprint, I like volatility, because I'm looking at an entry, and that will make sense in a second. But when I'm looking at a bird's-eye view, I like to look at volume, because I like to compare sessions. I like to compare time periods. And I'm safe in the knowledge that my chart is only giving me data when? When the market is actively printing, okay? Because, guys, if Asia prints only 1,000 contracts, or as we said here, 500 contracts, me looking at all these bars in five minutes is a waste of my time. It's not telling me anything. I want to know information where people are transacting, and I hope that's obvious now. So finally, let's look at volatility anyway. So we looked at activity. Volatility is range, right? Can you see London? London, you typically get bigger moves. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could have a chart that takes that into account? Because at the end of the day, guys, think about it. Have you noticed Asia has a small range? So let's say, let's look at one hour. So forget all of this stuff, so minute and volume, okay? We've covered that. We've covered that. Let's move on now to, that's volume, sorry, volatility. I'm sorry, I've covered all of this. So bar type here is volume, right? Volume bars take into account volume. Volatility, this is where these come in, guys. Sorry, these two, yeah? Volume is volume. Minute based is time reference. Remember, reference being what causes the price, sorry, the bar to change. So the reference in the minute based is time causes it to change. The volume bars is volume causes it to change according to what we've told it we want it to be. And volatility, guys, is Renko and range. And to be honest, guys, you can Google this stuff. There's actually other ones out there. There's case bars. There's quite a few, and at the end of the day, you can get as complicated as you want with this stuff. And the danger is, again, you become fixated and think, oh, you know how when someone tells you, guys, 20 period moving average, that's what you've got to use. That's where the magic's at. You can fall into that trap with these type of bars as well, where you could be like, oh, it's that particular type of bar. That's where the holy grail is. Guys, complete nonsense, as you know. Use it as far as it helps you to read the market. There's no magic in it. Pick one, stick to it, and it's going to work for you if you use it properly. Don't fall into the trap of going hunting for the golden, perfect bar type, okay, guys? They all have their pros and cons. These are the ones that I would suggest through many years of using. Keep it basic. These are the basic ones. As you know, for time, it's minute-based, volume, volume-based. Range and Renko is very good, in my opinion. They're the most widely used ones, so I use them, and I really have no need to get more complicated than that, because I don't think it's going to help me. Stick to these. If you want to explore some other ones, play about with them, but don't keep dropping and changing. Stick to one. With the volatility, again, as you know, you can see, we come back to it, London has what? You can see the ranges, right, guys? But no matter the difference between the range in Asia and the range in London, would you agree, minute-based charts do help you to see range, of course, because at the end of the day, what do you have, guys? A high and a low, right? So you've got a low and a high. Now, obviously, these are going to be wider if there's more volatility going on in the market. But the problem is this, guys. In Asia, or when there isn't volatility, what's going to happen? You're still printing candles. It's like when there's no volume. Why? Because time has elapsed. So can you see? Time can be quite a dangerous thing if nothing's happening. That's all I'm doing. I'm saying to the chart is, look, I don't mind you printing a bar, but just print it when something's actually happening, right? If nothing's happening, don't give me a bar. I don't need it. So that's the same thing in Renko and range. So you might have guessed by the name in range, what it does is, rather than when 500 contracts have printed, it's when a particular range has printed. So for example, it could be 10 pips. Let's think in terms of effects here. And you could, ticks is typically what you use in the futures market, but whatever, you use for pips, same thing. Let's say we set the setting now, so I'm going to delete this, to 10. So you'll notice it asks you in ticks on your platform. Okay? So it's basically, what it's doing is saying, look, give me the range. And Renko is range, and there's a subtle difference, and I'll show you. I actually prefer Renko, and there's a logical reason for that, but stick with me. So in terms of range, let's say we set 10, 10, 10. So all that means, guys, is the high to low, okay, this, okay, it has to be 10. That's what, essentially, the setting is doing. So only when we breach 10 ticks, do we change bar, okay? So let's think of Asia. Have you noticed, guys, or 10 pips, Asia may have an hour, for example, where, I'm going to draw two lines here, all it does is go up and down like this in six, seven, eight pip range. Would you agree? It could be an hour, it could be two hours, it could be three hours. Guys, you're going to have a whole bunch of candles there if you're using, what, minute based charts, five minute, 10 minute, whatever you're using, would you agree, even if you're in this range, you're going to get a load of candles here. What happens with the range, though, the equivalent? If you had the same thing, sorry, very bad drawing, but you get the point here, and the high to low wasn't 10 pips, guys, this is only going to print as one candle. This is going to print as several candles. Can you see the difference, guys? Absolutely crucial, why? Because now I've got to look at five times as much data to tell me the same amount of information. Absolutely crucial you understand this, guys, and this is why everyone that I know of anyway who looks at footprint is looking at these type of bars. What happens is, think about it, this is why I kept going on about cumulative versus non-cumulative, and I said it's really important you understand, because do you remember on the depth of market, volume is just printing, right, and it could be printing at the same price, and then it disappears, then it prints again, disappears, prints again, disappears, prints again, disappears, prints again, disappears within this range. I'm having so much information thrown at me, why not just cumulate all of that into one bar? Can you now see why I'm using the volatility type of bars in a footprint? So what would happen is, let's say we're in this range here, as soon as we break out of the range, that's when the second candle prints. It only prints whenever we make a high-to-low range of more than 10 pips. Guys, the most extreme way to think of it is, let's say the whole of Asia, only high-to-low of Asia was 7 pips, and I'm using a range bar of 10. Well, you're going to have one candle, the whole of Asia is going to be one candle, whereas if London, for example, was all over the place, you might have 8, 9, 10 candles, whatever, probably much more. Can you see again, valuable piece of information, if I said to you, look, Asia printed one volatility candle, and London printed 10 volatility candles, do you remember before we said the minute-based one, I'm saying to you it was 7 and 7, there was no difference. You don't know. Is there any difference? Were there more people involved? Is there any different type of information I can glean from 7 and 7? No. Well, here, I'm saying to you, obviously, different number of bars are printed in terms of volatility candles, straight away you can say, yep, London had more volatility. And actually, you don't realise it now, but I'll show you later why also, when we come to look at value, fair value, like we looked at on the volume profile, incredibly useful candles using volume, et cetera, because we'll be able to almost eyeball where value is on a chart. You kind of saw me doing that with the minute-based chart on cable, but you'll see it's much more powerful using volume-based charts. But let's not get into that, because it will confuse matters. So hopefully, that will make sense to you. So we essentially covered minute, volume, and range. Now, RENCO, guys, let me just clear some stuff here, thinking the best way to show you this. Let me just get rid of this high and low. Okay, now, RENCO, I love RENCO, because what RENCO essentially does is two things slightly differently. The first isn't that big a deal, but I do like it, because what RENCO does is it will measure ... Let's say this was an up candle, right? So what's that? That's the open. That's the high. That's the low. And that's the close. So we opened, and then we closed high, so it's an up candle. It will measure from the close. So let's look at a normal range candle. That's range, and that's RENCO. Very similar, except range is looking at simply the high to low of its candle. What a RENCO will do is it will look at the previous candle close, so let's say that was ... Let's say this was a down candle, and we closed there. So what this RENCO will do for it to change is it will reference this close. So rather than referencing a high or a low, it's simply referencing the previous close, guys. That's all it's doing, and it's looking for movement of ... Depends what you set it as. Again, guys, I'm sorry to tell you this, but I'd be lying to you if I said to you, there's one magic setting, and I use it forever. Guys, life doesn't work like that. There's no job in the world where you're always doing the same thing forever and ever and ever. Come on, guys. You've got to understand that trading is a serious business, and you are going to have to learn to calibrate stuff, but it'll get easier with time, and I'm here to help you to do that. So I hope you're out with settings and stuff. You can always come to me further down the line and say, look, Envy, what are you using in the summer? What are you using in the winter? What are you using here, seasons and stuff? I'm happy to help you out, tell you what I'm using. There's no magic number, but let's just say it was 10. You'll see what I use for pound, dollar, and et cetera. Because it's coronavirus right now, obviously volatility is slightly different. I have adjusted it, but let's just say it was 10. So basically what it needs to do is the market needs to change by 10 ticks versus the previous close. So rather than the low, okay, guys? So rather than the low, it's actually looking at the previous close. That's the only difference. And then similarly, the high. There is a second difference, and it's probably best, rather than confusing you, that I show you mainly on a chart, but I'm going to mention it here. And basically why I love Renko is because Renko is similar to range, obviously it's against the previous close, but that's not that big a difference. Is Renko will keep changing every time the market moves 10 ticks in one direction above or below the previous close, but it depends on the prevailing direction. So let me, I know that probably doesn't make sense, but so if the market's moving down like this, okay, so these are those open high, low, basically the same as a candlestick, but just bar charts, right? Market's moving down, which you see, what am I looking for, guys? I'm looking for guys to get trapped, right? So I want this information, essentially I'm happy for the candles to keep changing, because I want to see more volatilities coming in and more people are getting trapped. So I'm happy for that to happen. So if the prevailing trend is down, let it carry on. Let the bar keep printing and telling me that the prevailing trend is down. However, as you noticed, in particular with some of the reversals I take, when I'm trading currencies, et cetera, and this can be even when we're taking moves from value to value, as you'll see. So it could be that the market's moved up, we're looking at a retracement and moving up. That, can you see that, that little leg down can be this leg down. So it doesn't have to be only moved towards extremes, but it does work really well when we have extremes. Essentially, what the VRINCO does differently is, so we just agreed, high, low, 10 ticks, boom, next candle. What the VRINCO will do is, it won't allow the candle to reverse unless we've seen double the amount, as I said. So a change, to change in the prevailing direction. Why is that important? Because guys, what will happen is, as we said, and this is where footprint really comes into its own, is these sellers, guys, they're going to keep getting trapped around here. Buyers are going to keep buying against them. Basically, there's going to be a battle going on in this area around, so you see my levels in the discord, right? Would you agree what you don't want to see is candle shooting up, candle shooting down, candle shooting up, candle shooting down, candle shooting up, candle shooting down? No, you want to see all of this information, the buyers and sellers fighting on one footprint candle. Hope that makes sense, right? We're only interested in seeing something print when we actually are ready to flip over. So if there's a battle going on here, the reason I don't want the candle to change, guys, because I want to see all that information on one footprint candle, don't I? Why is that? Because, guys, at the end of the day, if there's over this five, 10-minute period here, right, if there's, you know, you see five people printing on the bid, five people on the bid, five on the offer, five on the bid, five on the offer, 100 on the bid, 100, whatever, and it's accumulating, wouldn't it be nice to see all of that bunched up together, just 1,000 on the bid, 1,000 on the offer, because, guys, I don't even need to be sitting there staring at it. As soon as the candle changes, I can take one glance, and it will tell me in summary, ah, the buyers and sellers, 1,000 each side, fairly even. Otherwise, guys, if I've got loads of candles here, those 1,000 contracts are going to be split out amongst many candles. I hope you can see that. So the range, it helps to dampen down a meaningless number of bars. It definitely helps, but the renko helps even more, because it will not let a candle print in the opposite direction until double the amount has printed. So you can be sure that if something does print the other way, there's a very high chance what? That we're potentially, guys, no guarantee, but potentially there's a reversal ready to take place. So that's why I love this candle, A, and also, as I said before, it allows volume to accumulate. And what did we say was the power of the footprint? Cumulative volume. So I hope you can understand now why I use a renko. I'm going to stop now, digest all of that. I'm going to show you on a real chart how all of this looks versus each other so we can just solidify your learning. And then I'm going to probably not talk much about this very much more and just assume that you've got it. If you don't, this is all obviously recorded for you. You can just keep watching it back until you get it or ask me any questions if there's any confusion. But honestly, guys, the best way to do it is play around with the settings and I'm going to show you how to do all the settings and play around with it and see it for yourself the differences between, you know, minute. I would say focus on the references obviously being time, volume, volatility, which is essentially all there is. But in terms of bar types that fall under those categories, there's loads. I would suggest minute, which you're used to anyway. Volume obviously bars for the volume and then ranker and range for the volatility. And that's it. So, you know, the final thing left for me to say is on your retail platform, because of the nature of the effects market, it's a spot market and obviously you don't get volume coming into your platform. By all means, stick to minute based. Some people like to use tick charts, some of you might be familiar with that. So tick again is very similar to volume, isn't it? People like to use volume or tick, which I didn't mention, but as I say, guys, stick to one. You know, at the end of the day, if you want to start doing some volume style analysis and volume isn't available, by all means, use tick. And you know, that's essentially the difference between market profile and volume profile. You know, back in those olden days, we'll cover this when we come to profile. Obviously, volume was very sparse. It wasn't available. So people used tick to draw their profiles and that's how market profile was born. Obviously, nowadays we have access to volume, so use volume profile. And that's why tick charts are quite popular as well, because obviously before volume charts weren't available, but we might look at tick charts. I haven't decided yet further on down the line if we're looking at things like the spot effects market, but we will cover that if we look at it. But look at these, I would really say three, obviously, if you want to look at range, look at it. I'm not really going to look at it too much as minute, volume, and Renko are really the main three I use for futures. So let's look at a live example and then we'll just finish off looking at a footprint table and show you what obviously the delta, et cetera, means in the table, and then we'll finish off the footprint. Cheers, guys. Okay, traders. So as I said, the best way for us to solidify our understanding is to look at this on real charts. So what I've done here took me a while to think of the best way to do it, and this is the best way I came up with is to literally have two charts on top of each other. They're identical, so it's the pound dollar, as you can see, and I want you to do this yourselves, guys. Don't just take my word for it. Obviously, we're doing it together now, so yeah, you can see it, but I also want you to do this exercise yourself. So have a look. Identical, guys. Five-minute charts, okay, so you can see here five-minute, five-minute, and it's the British pound futures, June contract. Doesn't matter what it is, but just make sure they're identical, okay? So everything's the same. Just satisfy yourself that they are indeed the same, okay? So you can see here, okay, so it's all identical. There's no difference between any of these. Now what we need to do to change the type of chart, so what we're going to do first is we're going to compare the references as minute-based, so time, okay, and at the moment, this is time as well, so the references, as we did on the table, is time, and the type, bar type, is minute. What we're going to do is we're going to change this to volume, because I'm going to show you what happens to this chart when we leave this as time, because my point is I want you to see it's exactly the same data. What happens when I change it to volume? And again, I want you to do this for yourselves. So let's change this to volume. So how do you do that? You go into chart, click on chart, chart settings, guys, or you can just press the five, and then... So you'll see all these candlestick types over here, draw type. Don't worry too much about those, it's pretty straightforward. I'll let you have a look at that for yourselves, but the one we're interested in is bar period type. Can you see this says days, minutes, seconds per bar? So at the moment, you can see it's a five-minute bar. That's why it says zero, five, zero. And just to show you, this is exactly the same chart, chart settings, zero, five, zero. So it's five-minute chart. Now we're going to change the top one to a volume chart, chart settings. And like I said, the default is 1,000. I use 500 for the pound-dollar, and we'll get more into this later. Don't forget, this is a footprint module, so I don't want to cloud this module too much with stuff we're going to be doing later anyway. When we set up charts on the futures market, I'm using volume-based, so we'll get a little bit more into why I'm using the numbers I'm using. But I use 500, I've found that to be well-calibrated to the current environment, so I'll press okay. So can you see, guys, it's changed now. How has it changed? Well, let's have a look. So the best way to do this is if I draw lines in the same timings. Okay, so that's volume, that's time. If I draw a straight line at the same time period, would you agree that's 12 o'clock, approximately when Asia's starting, right? I mean, you can see it was actually there where we had the gap. Obviously, overnight, there was a bit of a gap where the market basically opened and closed, but let's just say it was midnight, which is typically when Asia starts GMT. The point is we're marking the exact same times on the chart. Okay, so you see now what's happened. The volume-based chart starts over here. And what time typically does the market get busy? As we said earlier, it's Europe, isn't it? So 7 a.m. So can you see here, 7.05? So it's approximately just before that 7.05, about here, right? So that's seven hour period, right? What the next seven hours is obviously a very busy period. So if we take that to seven hours, that's about two o'clock, isn't it? Okay, so all I'm doing is I'm just marking out so you can see the difference. Now, this is a time-based chart, guys. So it makes sense, right? As I said in the previous tutorial, which is part of this where I was showing you, but with my hand-drawn stuff, the seven candles versus seven candles and so on and so forth. Can you see? It's the same distance. So instead of seven, obviously I was just saying that for the sake of an example, and it was practical at the time. I didn't want to draw this many candles. But essentially, we've got the same number of candles here in Asia as we do in the main London session going into New York. Same time period, same amount of candles. Do we know by looking at this which had more activity? No idea. Now, look at the volume, guys. Same time period. And now you'll understand why I covered a lot of this before because it would have been difficult for me to explain this. Here, it's better I explained it to you before and then showed it to you. So would you agree, 6.55? Just after that is seven. So let's mark that. So the market opens there. So that's seven hours. And then what's another seven hours? Two o'clock. So 14.10. I'm just going to mark it just before. There you go. There you go, guys. Exactly what I said, but on a live... So this is a live chart. You can see it moving, what I said, but on a live chart. So this period here is exactly the same as this period here. Can you see the difference, guys? And this period here is the same as this period here. So again, volume-based, guys, and time-based. And the candles are the same size, so there's no optical illusion. It's exactly the same. Now, can you see crucial information? I can see straight away this part of the chart, less activity than this part of the chart. And actually, the most important thing is the chart is calibrating itself. What do I mean by that? Well, guys, I don't want to get too complicated and go off topic here because this is about footprint. But when we come to look at charts, and I do look at charts, but I look at volume-based charts, the reason I love this stuff is because, yeah, I look at volume profile, but I also like to look at areas where activity has taken place because that is volume profile. And the point is, do you see, this gives a false sense. This is Asia. If I'm eyeballing a chart, and remember, I want to look back sometimes one or two days, it's going to give me the impression that this is a very important area, when actually the reality is it probably isn't. Why do I say that? Because, look, actually not much activity took place. What's much more important, guys, is this area here. How do I know that? Well, look, it's representative of a much bigger space on a volume chart. The chart is automatically adjusting itself for volume. So I hope you can see that. I hope that was helpful. And I'm going to cover later on what I look for to help me calibrate my charts. Do I decide on 500 contracts? Do I decide on 1,000? It's fairly straightforward. I like to see about a day, day and a half's worth on my space that I use for a particular time frame of chart. So that's what helps me. But I'm going to show you that. Don't worry about it too much here. The most important thing here is that you understand why institutions are looking at different bar types. And actually, I'm going to show you something amazing, guys. It's very controversial, but I'm going to show you why trend lines are, I'm trying to think of the politest way to say this, but absolutely useless, guys. And why you want to be very careful the type of things you listen to, not only in the retail education space, but in whoever's telling you things about technical analysis. You know I'm not the biggest fan. And guys, I don't just say it because I get any pleasure out of saying it. I say it because I can back it up. So let me back it up. Let's have a look. And try this for yourself. Let me see if I can get the right shortcut key for a trend line. Because I barely use it, so I can't even remember. Right. Would you agree people say, oh, yeah, that's the perfect trend line. You know, it's joining up the lows. Right. Ideally, obviously, you know, traditionally by the books, you want, I think, three connections or whatever. Who cares, guys? Whatever. The point is that's approximately a trend line. Would you agree? That could be a trend line there, or that, or that, or whatever. The point is draw a traditional trend line. OK. And you're looking for support. Now look what happens, guys, when you change this to a volume based chart. Right. So bar period type, we're going to change the volume per bar. I'm going to change that to 500. Change it to anything you like. Same issue. Look what happened, guys. Where's the trend line? It doesn't even touch. Can you see, guys? You've been misled into thinking that essentially all the institutions are looking at trend lines and so on and so forth, so you should be looking at them. You can see it's a load of nonsense. Guys, institutions aren't barely using minute based time frames unless, obviously, they're using instruments that don't have volume available. But as I mentioned to you, some are using tick. We don't know what they're using. The point is that with trend lines, unfortunately, they're not going to stick. So let's just have a look. Let me just get rid of this. There you go. Let's look at on here. OK. There's kind of a perfect textbook trend line, right? Now we're going to change this back to a five minute. So at the moment, this is a volume based chart. We're going to change this back to five minute. Press OK. Guys, look at that. Don't think I'm being biased or I like bashing technical analysis. Every time I do it, I've done my best to prove to you guys with evidence. See it for yourself. OK, guys, you're going to see this with all technical tools. That for this very reason, they don't work. Let's just finish off with the volatility time frame because that's the whole point of the footprint. And then we can move on with the footprint. And we'll revisit this stuff briefly when we come back to looking at volume based charts and setting up our main charts for some of the more established orderly futures markets. All right, guys. See you on the next slide. OK, traders. So here we have the raincoat. And now we've moved on to what referencing volatility as the factor to make the bar change. So we've got raincoat here and I'm going to show you this raincoat. And here we've got range. Remember, I said there were two types. Guys, not complicated. I'll show you exactly how. And again, try this for yourself to prove it to yourself. But we're going to do it together anyway. So, again, chart settings. Can you see bar period type raincoat bar? So I've clicked on raincoat. Now, what I like to do is and I don't want to get into this. You can check the manual why I do this. I mean, literally, I could speak for an hour about this. But I like to use candlestick bars because I can see all the information because by default, the graph drawing type will take you to raincoat bricks. Again, it's outside the scope of this session. We'll end up spending the next hour. Otherwise talking about the difference between raincoat bricks and candlestick bars. I like to keep it simple, guys. As I said, there's no magic. There's no holy grail way of doing it. That's why I prefer to just keep it simple and just take it from me. You're more than welcome to go into Sierra chart manual. And there's a great section that will explain the difference between the two. But bottom line is candlestick bars are showing me everything. What that does is it smooths things out. And I don't like that to be done. I want to see all the information high, low, close, everything. So I prefer to change it to candlestick bar. So raincoat bar and candlestick bar. And that's OK. Now, this, as you can see, is a range. So ranges, you know, I've seen a lot of I know a lot of institutional people that like to use. Sorry, let me just click here. Chart, chart settings. Can you see I've got range per bar? This is why I say there's a lot of variety of bars you can see. Stick to the basics, guys. Volume, range, in my opinion, are the two basic ones when it comes to volatility. So let's stick to those. So that's that. And then what I've done is I've gone for five. So you see five because that's what I use at the moment in pound dollar. And there's five there as well. And I'll tell you when I bring the footprint on why I like five. But I've calibrated it to five. I've used different figures like four in the past. Obviously, when it's more volatile, I will change that number and I'll show you why in a sec. But first, let me just show you very basic what's going on. And to do that, can you see this cursor? It's the same area when I move right to left on both charts. So what we're going to focus on is basically this swing here. So let me mark it for you. So I can compare the two. So if you think about it, I've got discord levels, don't I, where I'm trading into. And don't worry, guys, I know I'm showing you this stuff on a chart. It's because it's easier once we go into the footprint. And if I tried to show you this stuff, imagine that footprint numbers everywhere, the numbers would be big, it'd be impossible. So believe me, I'm actually doing it the correct way from a teaching perspective. It's so much easier for me to show you on the charts and then we will apply it to the footprint. So that could be a discord level. That could be a discord level. OK. Now, firstly, what is this telling us? Well, it's a five tick range. So you remember when I drew the charts, I said ten. But it's a five. I'm using five. All that means is, guys, this these bars. So focus here, guys, on this area. I'm pointing at the crosshair, this area here. Each bar won't change unless there's been a high to low of five ticks. So let's count it together. Can you see here where I've got the value 124? Watch how many ticks it goes up before it changes. So this candle here. So. One, two, three, four, five. Right. Again, do this for yourself. You see the same thing. So that's got a high low of five and then it jumped to the next candle. Guys, every single one of these candles is going to be five ticks. So do you see for, let's say here, what was the reference of the criteria on a time based chart? That's going to be one minute, five minutes, whatever. Here, this bar will not change unless a range of five ticks is formed. One, two, sorry. One, two, three, four, five. And then it moves on to the next bar. Do you see that? Guys, Rinko, I've done five ticks. Do you remember what I said? It's exactly the same. However, what is it versus the previous close? So let's just take one candle, for example, here. Right. If I point towards it, can you see that we closed right at the top? So look, one, two, three, four, five. OK. The next candle, one, two, three, four, five. So it's versus the close. But in terms of the high, the distance is no different. Right. We're looking at five ticks, although it's versus the close. Remember that. So that will have an impact on it or be a very small impact. The biggest impact, guys, that I want you to notice is look what happens in the same swing that I've highlighted here. Can you see how in the Rinko is completely white going up? It's completely white right here. Now look at this same swing, guys, on a range chart. Can you see you've got some down candles? Why is that? Do you remember what I said? The other significant factor that I love about Rinko is it requires twice the amount to reverse. So basically what's happening is here. Do you remember I said the market won't necessarily start turning unless until the battle is over between buyers and sellers. So look here. We're moving up. I got a down candle. Why? Because I had five ticks down. I've got a down candle here because I had five ticks down. I've got a down candle here because I've got five. And sorry, I'm actually pointing here, right, because I just realised you're seeing it there as well. But you see the point. Can you see all these down candles on this upswing? Now let's go up to this area here. Probably easier if I do it with this pen. Can you see there's no down candles, whereas here you've got this down one, two, three, all these down candles. Why is that? Because the requirement is five ticks. As soon as we got a range of five ticks, we got a down candle. Here we got a range of five ticks. But do you remember what I said? Against the prevailing trend, it needs twice as many. Right. So look what's happening here. Let's count it together here. Do you see this? The black candle is this one, two, three, four, five. Yeah, we got five, but it wasn't. Do you see the prevailing trend was up. The previous candle was up, up. We're going up all of. Use the pen because it's easier. Can you see we're going. This candle was why. So this candle tried to reverse. It made five ticks. But because the trend or not the trend, but the prevailing move was up, it wanted 10 ticks in the opposite direction. Here, because we're using range and not Renko, we got the five. So it gave us an extra candle. So can you see what point is? And this is where, excuse me, cumulative is crucial because it allows the candles. Excuse me. It allows the candles to cumulate, guys. And you're going to see this on the. Really important you understand this because you will notice this on the footprint. So let me just show you one final thing here before we move on to the footprint. So imagine this is a footprint here and here. Look, guys, look how many candles. And it's the same thing on a minute base. There'll be many more candles on here. Look how few there are. Why is that? Because for it to move back down. It has to have twice as many ticks here. I just need five up, five down, five up, five down. So, you know, I see a lot of people using footprint on normal rain charts. In my opinion, they should be using Renko because let's have a look why. Well, think about it, guys. Here, for example, here we got a turn. We got a turn, right? All of these will be on separate footprint candles. One, two, three, four, five candles here in this little box. Right. Look what the equivalent of that is here. It's all within. And in fact, it's even more extreme than that. Let's have a look at this probably. It's a bit messy. Let me just clear this up. And again, do this for yourself if you need to. Can you see this up move here on a Renko is this up move here on a range, right? And then this down move. So let's look at this area here going into my discord level versus look at this, guys. So here we've got one, two, three, four. It allowed it to accumulate over those candles and then it turned. Look what happened here. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Guys, ten candles. It didn't allow it to accumulate volume. You see that candle? It didn't let it reverse. Why is that? Because it wanted ten ticks in the opposite direction. So look, these up candles were, by the way, I just realised you may not know what I'm actually pointing out, but I'm pointing in. Watch this area here as I count or count the Renko together. So this candle here is one, two. Start again. It's very fiddly. Two, three, four. One, two, three, four and then five. Right. And then you see the low of the next candle started. So that's five ticks. Look at the reversal. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. And then the next candle started. Do you see that? So the reversal was twice the amount. Whereas here to reverse it only needs five, five up, five down. It doesn't take into account what's been going on before. So my point is here we were going up, so wouldn't let it turn around. And this is where it's really important to understand. This is what you're seeing on the footprint, guys. So in this region going into look, if it's more levels, your levels, whatever you're trading doesn't matter. But where you see the levels. Here you're only going to see four or five footprint candles with bunched up volume and you'll be able to read it. Here you're going to see 10 footprint candles if you use range, even more if you use minute based. Because think about it. If this is accumulating volume and it's taking 40 minutes. Guys, this could easily have taken 10, 20, 30 minutes. It didn't in this case, but it could have, right? If you're using a one minute candle because we're zooming in. Guys, you can see 40 candles are going to be going this way. Imagine 40 footprint candles. Guys, it would make no sense. Here, this allows it to accumulate. So now let's go and have a look at it on a footprint and then that's it. You should understand why we're using those type of candles. Just a moment. I'll see you on the next slide, guys. OK, guys, so this is the final example of this section. I know it's been long, but I hope you can see that it was necessary and I hope you feel it was worth it. And, yeah, your understanding of institutional bar types is really going to be up there. If you manage to stick along with it and you're doing things to prove this to yourself after you've watched this. Again, highly recommend it. So finally, we're here with the footprint. So, yeah, like I said, hopefully you see it was worth doing all of that because now you can transfer that knowledge onto the footprint. You're going to understand the footprint really well. So here you've got a raincoat, guys. And the reason I say this is the final one, because this is really going to hammer home what I've been trying to say is. So I've used reference here, raincoat, reference here, time, minute based. Think about it. We're coming into some of the discord levels. This is the discord levels. Hopefully you can see straight away the difference and why institutions are not using time based references when it comes to volume analysis. Look at this, guys. It's the same thing. So let me just show you. Again, you can load these up for yourselves. But chart settings. Remember I said I use five. In fact, let's change that to candlestick bars. So raincoat bar, five ticks. OK. And then here as well, just to show you that this is a minute based chart settings. OK, where are we? There we go. Minutes, one. OK, so one minute. So minute based. So can you see the problem with some of these minute based references, guys? So we're coming in in the morning. Look at this. What? Two candles. So I'll show you because you see the cursor will move into the same area. Can you see the cursor is moving into that region? So this I'm sorry, I know this is going to get a bit messy. This whole area here is essentially represented by this small area here. Can you see how using the raincoat has allowed volume to accumulate there, guys? Absolutely crucial difference between the two. Can you see that? Because it refused to move until there was a range, right, volatility and enough double the amount to cause some reversal in the opposite direction to the prevailing direction. Here, the time, because it's time based, it doesn't care. Every time 60 seconds, a minute is over, print. Minutes over, print. Minutes over, print. Doesn't care. Here, guys, this could be 20 minutes. It will not print unless what? Five ticks in the same direction as the previous move or 10 tick reversal. So volume is going to be accumulating and you'll see absolutely crucial because when we look to look at summary data, we only end up looking at one or two boxes here. Guys, I'm going to be looking at this box, this box, this box. It's going to be. What's the point? I might as well be on the depth of market is my point. I'm printing so many candles and the candle is changing for an arbitrary reason, which is time. Time is, you know, just because one or two minutes have passed. What does that mean? It doesn't mean anything. Whereas if we've had movement, what is it? Think about it. When we're coming into levels, what are you looking for? You're looking for aggression, right? You're looking for movement. What do market orders cause? Market orders cause the market to move. So we're looking for movement. We're not looking necessarily. Time is a factor. Of course, if something's been sitting somewhere for 10, 20 minutes, as you saw in the dome example, I use a pound dollar fine. Of course, I accept people are going to get nervous. But at the end of the day, it's a very minor factor. The main factor is what volume building, guys. So we want to be. And I know I keep repeating it, but I just want to make sure that you can see it, that here is refusing to change candle until what? We see a big reverse in the opposite direction here. Just for those two, here's printed like five candles because it doesn't care. It's come down. It's coming down. You see these tiny candles. They're just printing. You see, all of this is within itself. It can just be shown like that. That's that's separate. That's cumulative, guys, because it doesn't care whether the market is moving or not. It only cares about what time down here. One minute, one minute, one minute here. Doesn't matter if it takes an hour to change to pull the range or whatever. It won't change until it's satisfied that that criteria is met. So, again, just to show you some of these candles, you can see it's moving in the same direction. You've got. From the close, remember from the previous close, that's how it differs to the range. So since the previous close, you've had one, two, three, four, five kicks. OK, since the previous close, you've had one, two, three, four, five guys. Yeah. Since the previous close, you've had how many? One, two, three, four, five. OK, that's what's causing this to change. Now, remember what I said for it to reverse. Love this because it needs twice as many to go the other way. So there's the close. Right. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. OK, guys. So it needed ten. And then the reason it's showing here one extra is because why? Because it got to ten. But then it did what? It needed market orders to push it past ten. So that's why it shows that level, which shows that it jumped to the next candle. My point is, look, it's double the amount of ticks that you're seeing there. And then obviously, if you check all of them yourself, it'd be the same thing. So you can see the reversal candles are much longer. They're twice as much as the ones in the same direction. OK, guys. So just finally, I want to reiterate that. What you're seeing in these two candles is all of this cumulatively together. OK, so very, very powerful, because if I step away, I come back. Do I want to be looking at five, six, seven candles on a footprint? No. What's the point? I might as well look at it at the market. I can see it here. All right, guys, that's the end of it. I will revisit the Renko anyway when we watch the footprint move. I'll point out things like, oh, did you notice, guys, it only moved because this is the setting in the Renko and reversal. So we will revisit again. I'm not going to revisit the differentiating factors between all of them because, you know, I've given you a really long session here about all of that. Any questions, let me know. Let's now go and figure out what these all mean, bring it all together and make sure you get the footprint properly. All right, guys. Cheers. See you in the next section.