Okay traders, great job making it this far, I know it's been a lot of information to take in but I hope you can see why it was absolutely necessary and important to cover everything in depth because if I just give you a footprint, end of the day you're not going to really know what it is or why we're using different candle types or what the advantages or disadvantages are which is going to be detrimental to your use of it and the effectiveness of your use of it when you're actually using it to trade. So again, well done for making it this far. This bit should hopefully be a little bit easier because it's just looking at basic supply and demand methods. So what do I mean by that? Well, what I want to do is get into the meat of the footprint, so the sort of metrics that institutional traders are using it for. Up until now we've obviously had to look at the background of it, some of the more boring stuff, just so we knew what was actually going on. Now we know what's going on we can actually start to understand how can we use this. So the first thing is delta guys, absolutely fundamental to any type of volume analysis, whether it be on the footprint or whether you're using cumulative delta which we're going to come on to later in the charts. Delta is essentially at the core of all types of volume strength analysis. So what do I mean by that? Well, probably easier if I just get rid of this and I said I didn't want to bring the depth of market in but literally it's going to be just a few minutes just so I can, it's easier for me to show you this point here. There is a slight complication with delta but in trading where is there no complication? Guys, there's no right or wrong answer and unfortunately, and let's be honest, this is what makes real trading difficult. Trading how you're supposed to be trading and why retail trading, retail education, retail brokers have been able to take advantage because it is hard work. You do have a set of options presented to you and you do have to make a discretionary choice and that requires some obviously out of the box thinking whereas obviously a lot of what you may have been taught and forgive me if that's not the case with you, I don't want to say it's the case for all of you but obviously the majority of you, especially if you've come from a non-institutional background, will have been given easier methodologies and said look, that is the right way. That doesn't require you to have out of the box thinking. Why am I saying all of this anyway? Let me get to the point and it will make sense. Basically, with delta guys, it's literally the difference between buying and selling, alright? So that's why I said this is actually more simple looking at or reading the actual statistics than understanding the background. Obviously the background is quite hard work building up that understanding. Basically we spend the whole foundation course to understand market orders versus supply. That was difficult work. Now that you've got that and you've put the hard work in interpreting it, it's not easy by any means but it's easier. So as I said, it's simply just buying minus selling, right? So if you've had 10 people buy the bananas as the example we gave in the foundation course, obviously I didn't use 10 but whatever, let's say 10 people bought boxes of bananas at $11 and two people sold them, the buyers are stronger, right? Simple guys at that price point. So that's all delta is measuring but the reason I gave the whole spiel at the start about you're going to have to learn not only here but throughout your trading career to make decisions that aren't necessarily written in stone. So I can't tell you this is the right or wrong answer. It's because there's two different measurements of delta that institutions are using. So that's why I brought the depth of market. Would you agree when the depth of market is printing? It's printing here on the offer and it's printing here on the bid right price. So that's where imbalances come in. Traditionally, imbalances have actually been measured this way, where you've got this number here and then this number. So it would be 10 minus 2 equals 8. That is how through time all imbalances have been measured. Why is that? Because it's easier to reference one price. Because if you did 4 minus 2, right guys, the problem is you've suddenly got two prices. It makes comparison cumbersome where it doesn't need to be. So it's always been this way. Now, what's happened in recent times as volume analysis has become more popular is a lot of people have said, hang on. And I think with some merit behind it is, hang on a minute. So let me just delete this. Are we not printing the bid and offer diagonally? So as you get more into this, you'll see there's a setting in all volume analysis tools, not only in Sierra, in every chart in the world. On institutional platforms, it will give you an option. Do you want to do? So forget about supply, but I'll just show you that it is basically diagonal, isn't it? If you want to buy, you have to buy at 98. If you want to sell, you have to buy at, sorry, sell at 97. So can you see it's diagonal? So you have a choice to make now on the platform. It gives you the options, as I said, in trading, real trading. Unfortunately, guys, there is no black and white. There's a lot of gray, and you just have to decide what logically makes sense to you. Obviously, I'm going to tell you what makes sense to me, and I'm going to give you very good logical reasons. But you have to make a decision what you think works for you. That's not going to happen overnight. Obviously, as you go on and trade throughout your career, you'll get a feel for what works for you, but I don't think you necessarily need to complicate it. So like I said, again, to repeat the point, would you agree the bid and offer is diagonal? So here, four people have bought at the same time that two people have sold 97. What I mean at the same time is obviously the bid and offer. We're at 98 and 97. But like I said, traditionally, what people have done is said, well, hang on. OK, the current bid offer is 97, 98. So technically, that is the latest buying and selling imbalance or balance, i.e. four people versus two people. But hang on. 97 has 10 contracts that traded on the buy side when the bid offer was 96, 97. So I hope that makes sense, because do you remember, at some stage, for this to have printed 10, guys, you should know this now, market orders. From 10 market orders to have printed there, there would have been what? Supply here. I'm just going to make up a number. Say it was 20. At some stage, there was a number there. There was nothing here. So it would have been diagonal like this, right? So again, like I said, what traditionally institutions have always done is rather than doing it diagonally, which is the, sorry, just get my pen ready here, 4 minus 2. They've always said, well, we don't care that it's diagonal. Technically, OK, the bid offer is diagonal. We're just going to take it at the same price level. OK, so yeah, technically, you could argue that it should be 4 minus 2. But actually, when we're trading at a certain price, you could also argue, hang on, I'm more interested in a particular price level. So what I've come to the conclusion is that there's no right or wrong answer. To me, certain things make more sense. So we're now going to get rid of the depth of market. I'm going to go straight to the footprint. So let me, this is actually a live depth of market. I've disconnected it, because otherwise, we'd be moving up and down. I wouldn't be able to show you this example, right? So let me just move that to the side and bring up the footprint. So here's the footprint, guys. Now, I can actually zoom into this, because I know some of you are on smartphones. And I'm going to try and make this a bit easier for you. Get rid of that. So I hope you understand why I showed you on the depth of market, because here, it's not as obvious. Where what? Bid offer trades diagonally. So let's just, it doesn't matter what candle we take. Let's take this one. Would you agree that's the bid and offer, typically? Here as well. Typically, that's the bid and offer, right? And we could say that for any of these, right? That's the bid and offer. That's the bid and offer, guys. Now, like I said, you could either argue what, you could either argue for it sideways, because it's also buying versus selling, or you could argue diagonally. So you need to make a decision. So what I've found, and this is from talking to institutional traders who are very successful that I know of, and also through my own research, I've just found that what the majority of people do, and I think it makes sense to me, is they've kind of found a happy medium, where they've said, okay, so what we're going to do is we're going to continue to use, for the main delta calculation, what's traditionally been done, because what will happen is, the reason I think that makes sense is because, so let me first show you the delta calculation. Do you remember what I said? It's just buys minus sells. So have a look at this column here. Guys, that's the delta, okay? Very simple. What did I say? Buying minus selling. So do you remember that's the buying side, right? Market orders, that's the selling, market orders. Just do one minus the other, guys. 3 minus 0 is 3. 6 minus 4 is 2. Okay. 65 minus 12 is what? 53. Okay. What does that mean? It just means there were three more contracts bought. You can think of it in very simple terms. There were three more buyers than sellers at this particular price, whatever price that was. Let me zoom out of that. Just get rid of this. Okay. So probably quite handy if I could have the price. Unfortunately, because of the zooming function, I can't, but you may have to do this on your desktop to really get it, guys. Maybe if I zoom in, if you have a look at this one, 123.62, right? What does that mean? Yeah, on the bid offer, it was 8 versus 2. But actually, that involves two prices, doesn't it? It makes it complicated unnecessarily. So what we can do is when we measure delta, we use, I prefer to use traditionally what traders have always used historically before they gave you that second option, which is to use the single price. At 123.62, there were eight buyers and three sellers. Kind of makes sense, even if you're in the open marketplace for any good, as I talk about all the time, like chocolates, wine, whatever it is, or bananas. It's always nice to know it at one price point, isn't it? You wouldn't say, oh, when the bid offer in bananas was 10 versus 9, even though technically it's correct. You would say, well, at $10, there were eight buyers and three sellers. Traditionally, it kind of makes sense. But technically, it's not correct. Because as we know, you can't buy and sell at the same price. So it's a slight technical nuance. So what I prefer to do is do what makes logical sense to me for the main delta calculation. So can you see that here it's simply eight buyers minus three sellers. So five. And that's why it's green and showing as plus five, because it's strength on the buy side. Where it's red, it's more sellers than buyers, guys. So let me show you that. Again, I want you to do this, obviously, in your own time as well. So I am actually able to show you the price. I apologize. Sorry, you'll have to forgive me. Obviously, I'm a trader, not a presenter. So I'm not familiar with half of this stuff. But let me really zoom in for you here. There you go. So can you see at this price point, which is 123.57 in pound dollar, it's 29 minus 10 is what? Minus 19 in red. Why? Because the selling side was stronger at that price. OK, so when I said there's a compromise, so where is the compromise, guys? So the imbalance, essentially, there's two ways of measuring imbalance. There's this type of traditional delta. And then there's also the new type of imbalance, which I said is on the bid offer. So what I've done to find a nice, happy medium is I look at both, essentially, and I look at them in different ways. So this is why it makes sense to me. So forgive me. I know it sounds like I'm not getting to the point. But actually, what it is is I'm building myself up to it. Because like with most things, it's not necessarily just a straightforward answer. So I'm just making sure that I'm presenting this in the right way. Because I want to zoom out a little bit. And you'll see why in a second. All right. OK, so the new type of imbalance looks at it, as I said, diagonally, right? So what I've decided to do, and again, this is what I've found from speaking to many friends who are institutional traders, is they've decided to do it as well. And it's kind of nice, because I decided to do it. And I find out that everyone else decided to do it, which kind of makes me reaffirm that what I'm doing makes logical sense. So what I've said is, in individual candles, where I'm not necessarily referencing it to another area when I'm coming back to it. So what do I mean by that? So let's say here I'm looking at this delta price. What I like to do with that type of delta is when I'm coming back to it to test this area again, I like to look at it as a individual price, because it makes sense to me. We've got to come back to that price. However, when I'm looking at it individually within one candle, I like to look at it diagonally. OK, that's where the coloring comes from. What that does is it allows me to basically cover both my bases. It allows me to cover diagonal delta and also delta sideways. So how do I do that? Well, what I do is, and the market has, you know how with a lot of things that you use on your retail platform, there'll be a standard setting. The standard setting is basically three, the imbalance. So what does that mean? That means that essentially it's either buyers over sellers, the ratio is greater than or equal to three, or sellers over buyers. But obviously, that would be negative. So it's, you know, that would be less than or equal to minus three. Right. So what do I mean by that? So let's have a look at this. Buyers over sellers here. Let's look for some imbalances. We can see them straight away where it's green, isn't it? Can you see that 65 is green? What that is doing is it's saying 65 over 21. What is that? Three. OK, so does that meet my criteria? Yes, it does. OK, color the buyers green because the buyers are stronger there by a ratio of more than three to the sellers. Hope that makes sense. So that's buying. Let's do one more example. Again, do this for yourself. Everywhere it's green and not green. Do the ratio and you'll see that it's three. Here, can you see five over one? What's five divided by one? Five. There's five times more buyers. Right. Is that greater than or equal to three? Yes, it is. So that turned green. OK, let's look at these two. These two, these two, these two, 81 over 46. Is that ratio greater than three? No, it isn't. It's less, isn't it? So it didn't color that green. However, was 89 minus 30, sorry, 81 minus 39, 42. So the delta there still shows me the delta and I can compare it to every price level delta here. Then what I've also done, which is quite nice, is I've got these bars which show me the strength of delta relative to the rest of the bar. OK. So here you've got delta at each price level, right? So again, guys, do this for yourself. Get up a footprint and just do it on a calculator or whatever. Just do each one. Three minus zero. Yep, three. Six minus four. Yep, two. 65 minus 12. Yep, 53. Nine minus 21. Minus 12. It's red. Sellers were stronger. 21 minus nine. Minus eight. OK, so at every price level, you've got a delta. And what I've done is, this is why I say, guys, you won't find a better footprint than the one that I've built for you. I've custom built this because for me, it makes so much sense when I'm, you know, if I nip away for 10 minutes, I come back straight away. Can you see how buyers were strong there? Buyers were strong there at that price level. I've done it. So the bars are stronger where the delta is stronger relative to the rest of the bar. Because 42 and 53, would you agree, in this bar are the strongest deltas? So coming back to, I'm now mixing and matching here a little bit by talking about the diagonal and the sideways. But at the end of the day is just looking at the ratio of buyers and sellers. So let's look at some negative deltas because we did the diagonal positive ones. OK, so let's look at this. So that, would you agree, 19 sellers and five buyers is 19 over five greater than three? Yes, it is. Now, the reason I put the negative sign is because obviously, in reality, it's minus 19, right, because 19 sellers. So it is obviously less than or equal to minus three, but it doesn't really matter. The point is that it's 19 sellers over five. So is the ratio greater than three? Yes, it is. OK, anything above 15 sellers in this instance would have been greater than or equal to three. So can you see it goes red? Automatically, I've built this so it does it for you. You can change the ratios, play around with it in your career. You may find something different works for you. I've just stuck with the industry standard three. You know, I've tried different ones. And, you know, at the end of the day, I just find they kind of even themselves out. As long as you're consistent, then you're OK. So let's just quickly recap. And I think that's really it for Delta, guys. Like I said, it's much more simple than a lot of the stuff we've been looking at. We're essentially looking at. Buyers versus sellers, who's stronger at each price level. And again, just to reiterate, I like to look at. This and you'll see later when we actually do footprint examples here, I like because what it is, I like to just look at these at a glance. Can you see it nicely? It sticks out there, there, there. So it kind of gives me a rough idea of where whereas in the individual candle, these imbalances can be a little bit all over the place. So what by looking at it this way and then highlighting the delta bars when we come back to it, I just find it easy to compare individual price levels. To me, that makes sense when you're coming back to levels to test and then take off from. OK, now, why would we come back to test and how would we get in and what would we do? We'll get onto that later. The whole point of this exercise is literally to explain to you what the delta is and why not only me, but also all institutional players are looking at it generally on an individual candle diagonally to figure out where the imbalance is. Imbalance, what does that mean? More buyers and sellers and imbalance or more sellers than buyers. So again, don't forget, guys, it's easily highlighted for you and you should be visible to you as well. Right. So in an individual candle, I'm looking at it both ways. And it's actually quite nice to combine them because on the individual candle especially, if I just zoom out, we just have a look at these again. Individual candle is just what it is. I'm just trying to think of one candle because there's so many candles here. I think the best way not to confuse matters where we've got a mix of buyers and sellers. So that will give you a good example. Again, let me just move this across so you can see the price. OK, so you see there aren't that many good examples. This is a good one. OK, so here you go. So can you see here selling imbalance, selling imbalance at the tail end, we had imbalances, 10 more sellers than buyers, four to one. Think of it in ratio terms as well Think of it in ratio terms as well as absolute terms. But for now, I don't want to complicate matters. Just think of it as ratio and we'll come on to what is a big and small number for us to look at. But you can see there again, 32 more sellers than buyers, whereas here we had more buyers and sellers, more buyers and sellers on the diagonal basis, more buyers and sellers. So what I like to do is and then I'll combine it with the sideways delta, which is minus 25, which is 32 more sellers than buyers. So not do you see this is actually quite a strong selling area on its own. Obviously, it depends where we are on the chart contextually. You know, if we're in the middle of nowhere, it's meaningless. But if we're at a crucial area we're looking to trade at, we've not only got diagonal imbalance 32, we've also got a sideways imbalance, which is typically what delta is referring to, minus 25. So that's the delta. All right, guys, so that is delta on an individual basis. Now what we're going to do, just crank it up a little bit and we're going to look at delta summarized in the table below. So again, I haven't really seen much of this anywhere. Like I said, I'm not a presenter. I'm trying to figure out how to get this zoomed out again. But you can see this delta, this delta change, max delta, min delta, and delta percentage. So let's go over what these are. Now you know what delta is individually on an absolute basis within each candle. Let's look at what this is. And look, we'll revisit all of this again. So if that didn't make sense, don't worry. It will when we revisit and do some examples. So basically, let's look at this table first. OK, traders, so we're looking at this table here, which is actually a very useful table, which, like I said, is custom built just for you. You won't get this on any footprints. You may have the option for one or two of these individual options. But as you'll see, I've combined some stuff to really help you notice if buyers or sellers are being trapped. Because ultimately, to understand what's going on in this table, it's probably best we actually start to think about what we're actually looking for in the footprint. Well, as you know, I'm looking for, as you may have seen on my posts before or when I discuss this in the Discord room, is I'm looking, guys, for people to get aggressively selling. Because what happens if people are selling into a move that's going to reverse? As soon as it starts reversing again, then what are they going to have to do, guys? They're going to have to bail. We call it puking on a trading floor. But basically, they're going to have to exit, aren't they? To exit, what do you have to do? Buy. So at the end of the day, the more that they've sold, would you agree, the more they have to buy to drive it the other way? So if I zoom this out again, sorry, apologies for this. If you think of, look, it can be my Discord levels. It doesn't matter. I'm going to obviously talk to you, especially in the orderly markets, about context and finding areas to trade from. And let's say you've got your hypothesis. Now, at the end of the day, guys, you're not always going to have the same levels as me. This is not crystal ball territory. Everyone's going to have slightly different levels. It doesn't matter what the level is. The point is you've got to have absolute faith in your level. But the point is, let's say this was an area of interest. Like I said, we're going to get into this a bit later, context. But let's just take it for granted for now that that is an area you have marked, as you see sometimes, well ahead of the session. I'll have areas I'm interested in. What I'm looking for, guys, is I'm looking for people to aggressively sell into here, get trapped, and then it starts to move against them. And they do what? Start panicking, buying, panicking more, buying. Think about it. When you're in a short and the market starts going the other way, what do you do? You start to get worried. So would you agree we need to find a measure of how short? This is short. Obviously, it works for longs as well, just the opposite way. But we need to find a measure of how short are these sellers as they're getting into this area of interest? So that's what essentially this table is going to help us to do. It's going to help to tell us how short the sellers are because obviously, as I said, the shorter they are, the more aggressively they're getting trapped into sell positions, into areas where I want to buy. They're going to help my buy position move in my favor, isn't it? Because the more people that are selling, the more people that need to buy or the more contracts that need to be bought. So we've already said delta, right? Delta helps us measure what? The strength of the buyers versus the sellers or sellers versus buyers. So think about it. It is strength, but it's also strength in the sense of showing me where the market's got pain points. Now, what do I mean by that? Well, what did I just say? I want to find out where sellers are selling aggressively so that I can trade against them, right? Now, what does that mean? Well, as we said, the delta is what? The difference between buyers and sellers. So obviously, I want to see what? Sellers be stronger in terms of delta. So forget about diagonal delta for the minute because as I said, the way we're measuring it here is aligned at the same price point. Really doesn't matter, guys, which one you do. I don't want you to get obsessed about this. I use it sideways at one price point. If you want to go off and do it diagonally, that's fine. Like I said, on individual candles, I don't mind doing it diagonally because the other thing I forgot to mention is as the candle is forming, we're trading diagonally. So I don't mind looking at imbalances on a single candle diagonally. But when I'm looking at a candle as a whole and areas as a whole, obviously, I like to look at it in terms of price. So the easiest thing for us to do anyway, we've already understood individual price points are telling us the strength of buyers and sellers. Well, guys, what do I want to know? I want to know whole areas, areas as we're selling, right, as we're selling into my... Do you remember I had this little area? I want to know as a whole. I'm not just interested in one price, am I? Because are people selling at one price? No, they're selling over time. I want to see how trapped are people getting, just how aggressive is the selling. So that's why I designed this table, which I find very useful. So all I'm doing, basically, and to be fair, with the first line that you see here, a lot of institutional traders are going to be looking at the delta of the entire candle. So that is all that first number is. So again, I'm sorry to keep zooming in and out, but probably helpful for those of you on smartphones. If I just zoom in a little bit more. Okay, so... Sorry, I'll just clean this up for you. What I was thinking of doing is let's go over, how many have I got here? Five candles. So as we're coming into the sell zone, so one, so we've got this candle, this candle, two, three, four, five. Let's do it individually. As I said, guys, never take my word for it that this is what I tell you it is. Let's break it apart. And don't forget, this is very different to extracting data out of the chart when using technical analysis. Technical analysis, what's that doing? That's distorting price. You're taking averages, you're bending price and doing weird things with it that you really don't need to. You're making it more unclear. Guys, what is this? This is, as I've shown you, market orders straight off the depth of market. I'm not manipulating the price. All I'm doing is I'm rearranging it, summing it, unboxing it into, how do I say it, information that's easily readable. That's all I'm doing. I'm not manipulating it. So I want to prove that to you. So would you agree? This basically table, this section here, relates to this candle. So let's just go through them one by one. So as I said, the first one is simply delta of the whole candle. Let's prove that to ourselves. So all that's doing is it's summing. Do you remember this is the sells and this is the buys, right? Market orders. It's the sum of the sells versus... So what was delta? It was just buying minus selling. It's just a difference at one price point. All this is doing is taking the difference across the whole candle. So that's all it's doing. So all you do is you just sum all of these. Simple as that. So let's prove it to ourselves. We can either sum the differences. So 2 plus 3 is what? 5. Minus 12 is minus 7, right? Minus 4 is minus 11. Minus 4 is minus 15. What do you see there, guys? Minus 15. Slow the video down. Rewind it. Do it yourself if you have to. Let's prove it to ourselves a different way. We're just looking at what? The difference of all the buyers versus all the sellers. So you can see all the buyers here and all the sellers. What's the sum of all the sellers, right? So I'm going to let you add this up in your own time. I've actually done it here. It comes to 36, okay? And the sum of all the buyers comes to 21. Just to keep the video, obviously, short. What's the difference between 21 and 36 minus 15, guys? 36 more sellers than buyers. So yes, this was sellers potentially getting trapped. As in, sellers were more aggressive. Obviously, different traders are going to read this different ways. As you know, a lot of retail traders will get excited by this and think, oh, selling coming in. Let me chase it. No. We're being clever here. We're saying, actually, let's let sellers, people who've got FOMO, fear of missing out, that are getting aggressive into selling, let's let them build up selling. Again, that's beyond the scope of this. This is just for footprint. That's more to do with contextual ideas and, obviously, using the footprint to trade, which we'll come on to. For this, I just purely want you to understand what this is telling you. And all it's telling you is that there's more sellers than buyers. That's it. And instead of on an individual line, it's across the whole candle. So minus 15. Now, I'm just thinking, what's the best way of doing this, whether we go through them one by one or whether we go through them across the board? Let's go through them across the board. So what I'm going to do is for this candle, let's just look at delta. So again, it's the sellers in this column and the buyers. So you can pause the video and count it up yourself. But what you'll see is that's 69, guys, and that is 66. So what are we saying? 66 buying contracts versus 69 on the sell side. Fairly even, isn't it? And what's the difference? Minus 3. Fairly even, guys. Do you see why I created this table? Guys, I haven't got time to sit there adding this stuff up. This is beautiful. I don't even need to look at a candle. I can just look down and say, oh, on the last Renko bar, buyers and sellers were even. Here, buyers and sellers were slightly skewed to the negative side. This is the problem, guys. And I don't mean to paint everyone with the same brush, but in particular in retail, people are obsessed with this idea of, oh, it has to be minus 30 and then I'm going to sell. It has to be minus 40. People are obsessed with looking for the right number. Guys, there's no right number. The problem is the markets are consistently changing. So you need to learn to adapt. Right now, you know, there's coronavirus going on. So actually, what I've noticed is these deltas are not going to be that strong in terms of how negative the sellers get. You need to adapt to that. In normal times, I might see very aggressive selling, you know, like delta of a minus 100 or whatever. Nowadays, I'm not seeing it. So you see, I have to adjust. You just learn to adapt. That's something we'll talk about later. But my point is it's very subjective and you obviously need to learn through screen time what sort of delta values over a period of three, four bars are suggesting sellers are getting trapped. Now, what I've done to make your life easier and mine is I have put in delta percentage which kind of gets rid of the need to look at things on such an absolute basis, but we'll come back to that because from now, I just want to show you what delta is. So that's minus three, right? 69, 66 in favor of the sellers. So let's look at the next one. This is I'm just going to do this really quickly. And again, you can pause the video and prove it to yourself. 136 and then this is 39. Okay. So I'm just adding up this column of buyers, sorry, and sellers. Okay. And the difference between 136 and 139 is minus 67. Okay. You could just sum these up because it's just the delta of each individual difference, right? It's just basic stuff, guys. And then over here, we've got sellers and we've got buyers. So that is, like I said, I'm looking at my sheet because I've done this before. 59, 39. Okay. What's the difference between those two in favor of the sellers? 20, right? That's why it's red. So now I'm just going to show you one green one just to obviously prove it to you on buys and sells. This is 307. Okay. If you add up all the buys in this column, and then you've got 277 of sells. Okay. So you've got 30. Okay, guys. So that's why it's green. So I've custom designed this to give you nice colors, fading different colors, depending on the strength. I've designed all of this for you and for me just to make my life easier. So I can look straight away, guys. And this is what I'm doing all the time. I like looking individually at price levels diagonally, like, oh, there's some strong selling coming in there. But I also like to look at the whole candle in summation. So this easily tells me, oh, in that candle, we had 67 more contracts, market orders, than buying market orders. So the sellers were definitely either you could say in control or getting trapped. Obviously, it depends on the context. If you're getting short, this is great for you. If you're looking to get long, this is also great because, again, it depends. If you're coming into an area after a big move, as you know, I like to look for, we're looking for this to be a sign for us to buy the market. Whereas if we're looking to get short, then this would be, again, a good sign for us to sell the market. So again, it depends on the context. But essentially, hope you can see that. Do that for yourself. Very basic stuff, guys. Just telling you the strength of buying versus selling. Now, delta change, I like to look at. I'm not really going to get into in detail the reasons why. Because unless the market's moving and I'm showing you myself using the footprint, probably isn't as powerful as me doing that. But I'll tell you essentially what it is. And you should be able to understand from when I describe it to you what exactly it's telling you. So all the delta change is telling you guys is the difference between this delta and this delta. So on this candle, would you agree this box relates to this candle, we had minus 15. What was the last candle? Minus 15. What's the difference? Zero. Now on this candle, we're at minus 3. Previous candle was minus 15. What's the difference? Plus 12. What does that mean? The buyers came back a little bit strongly. And look at the candle, guys. It's shown in the candle. It's shown in the delta change. Then what happened? We went from minus 3, guys, in this candle to minus 67. What was the change? Minus 64. Can you see? The sellers took control again. Then what happened here? We went from minus 67 to minus 20. It was slightly less negative. And that's why it's showing me. It's a warning sign. It's telling me envy. Yeah, you've got the sellers strong here. But be careful, because they're less strong than the previous candle. So that's all that's telling me. It's just a change, guys. And then you can see it here as well. Minus 20 in the last candle went to plus 30. So the buyers had a resurgence. So it's just telling me the delta change. Go over that a few times, especially when you're actually using footprint or just looking at footprint to understand and convince yourself that all it's doing is looking at the change between one delta and the other. Now we're going to look at max delta. I'm sorry. I know my head's covering these labels somewhat. So I've just gone and written this here. I took a pause. I do apologize. You may have heard my dog in the background. She's not well at the moment, and she's constantly having to go out. So I apologize for that. Again, I know it's not very professional, but what can you do? She's getting to the end of life there. But back to the topic at hand, the positive side was when I paused it, I realized my head was covering some of these labels. So look, I've put them in here, guys. But bottom line is we've covered delta. Should make sense to you now. It's just the strength of buyers or sellers on the whole candle as a whole. Delta changes, just looking at the current candle versus the previous candle in terms of the change in its candle delta. Then what we've got is we've got this thing called max delta. Guys, I know this might seem a bit overwhelming to you, but believe me, when you... It's like with driving or whatever. At first, you're like, oh, I'm never going to get this. There's like a million things I need to look at at the same time. Guys, trust me. Once you look at it a few times, you're going to realize just how easy it is at one glance to look at this versus staring at depth of market, as I showed you in the foundation course. And you can see why I've moved away from that, because I've developed unique ways, in my opinion, of looking at things. And that's what trading is all about. It's about developing things that allow you to observe and understand and structure market opportunities in the most efficient way. And that's all this is doing without distorting what is in front of you. So with the max delta, anyway, back to the point at hand again, max delta, all this is doing, guys, when the footprint is moving, maybe we can look at this again. But it's not complicated. All it's doing is, if you think about it, when a candle forms, right, so just bear with me here. Let's look at this blank space here, on this side of the blank space. So let's say a candle forms. Would you agree, at first, there's only one line, and it could be like zero here, and it could be five market orders coming. Would you agree the delta is plus five, right? Just five minus zero. Then what happens is another, so just how these candles, two, two prices it prints, then it starts to become five, zero again. Can you see plus five? And I'm cumulating now. So it's plus five, and five becomes 10. Then we carry on, zero, and it's another five, so it becomes plus 15. OK. Then you might have suddenly 20 sellers come in and no buyers. So would you agree, minus 20, but we've already got plus 15. So if you add those, it becomes plus five. What this is, this is just your delta, isn't it, of the whole candle. But instead of looking at an individual price level, you're adding it as the candle's forming. What's the latest? This delta as the candle's forming. So we said this was the first price. It was plus five. Then another five, plus 10, another five, plus 15. So at the moment, what you see in this here is you'll see 15. Then it will go minus 20, so five. So you'll see five in the delta. How it relates to max delta, and in fact, just so I can prove the point, let's do another 15 on the sell side, right? So what's five minus 15? Would you agree it's minus 10? So all this is saying is, what was the maximum delta at any point in that candle? Well, we, just to make it simple, we said the price started here and it just went up one, up one, up one, up one. What's the maximum delta? There it is, plus 15. So that's all that's telling you. In each candle, what was the highest point the positive delta reached? Then minimum delta. What's the lowest point, guys? Minus 10. Because what may happen most likely in the next candle is this could go 10 buyers and zero sellers, which is plus 10 in their favour. What's minus 10 plus 10? Zero. Then we might get five, zero, five. So five versus zero is plus five. Five plus zero is five, and then we might get another five, zero. I'm obviously making all these numbers up, but that's essentially what's going on here, isn't it? And you get what? Plus five. Plus five is what? 10. Plus 10, plus five, plus zero. So where's the maximum point this ever reached before the next candle started? So this is a new candle. Well, where was it? We look for it. Oh, it was plus 15. So this would say the equivalent for where was the, what was the most amount of delta in the buyer's favour that was ever produced in this whole candle as it was forming? Well, it was 32. What was the lowest it ever went to? Like here, it was minus 10. Well, it was minus 40. Guys, this is, I can't tell you how crucial this information is. Because if you think, and look, I don't expect you to get it off one little, you know, 10-minute section where I'm specifically explaining this. I get it. It's going to take time for you to understand what I'm talking about. Come back to this. Keep coming back to this whilst you're watching the footprint or you're trying to understand the footprint. Because what you will start to understand is this is incredibly important information in the sense of if you think about it, if your candle hardly ever had any positive cumulative delta at any point in terms of the buyers, and all it had was very, very negative delta, can you see there were hardly any buyers? That's what it's telling me. So what I look for is I love to see if I'm looking for sellers getting trapped, a huge negative delta with very little positive delta. Because what does that tell me? It means that there was hardly any buying before the selling came in. And look at it, guys. Can you see the buyers? Where is there any positive delta here in this column? There isn't. And that's reflected in the fact that positive delta in the whole formation of this candle barely got above three. At one point, whilst this candle was forming here, it got to plus three, probably right at the start when it just opened up. Maybe three people bought and no one saw. And then suddenly, it just went collapsed. Because as you can see here, they're all sellers at every price level. And that's reflected here. So I love looking at this versus this. Similarly, if we're going up and I'm looking for buyers to get trapped, I like the max delta to be extremely aggressive and the minimum delta to be virtually zero. Because that tells me that sellers barely imbalanced the buyers at any price level. Because think about it. If they did, then at some stage during the formation of that candle, the sellers would have got some negative delta in. But they didn't. OK, guys. So hopefully, that makes sense. Obviously, you need practice to really solidify that understanding of that. But I'm going to assume that this, at least, you can keep rewinding whilst you're watching a footprint to really understand what that means. But just remember, it's just watch these numbers changing as you're watching a footprint go up and down to really get yourself to understand this. I'm not necessarily going to do that. I'm going to do it while showing you examples. But I'm not going to do it as part of this exercise, because I think it's easier for me to show you when it's static. But for something like maximum delta, just watch it. As it's forming, you'll see throughout the formation of the bar, the highest or the lowest delta it was ever able to achieve throughout the bar. Because think about it. As this bar is changing, this delta number is changing at all times. It only settles when the bar closes, right? Then it moves on. But this number is always changing, because buyers and sellers are constantly battling here. So this just kind of tells you the limits that the sellers were able to reach and the buyers were able to reach. So obviously, if the limit that the buyers were able to reach was very small, as we see here, and the limit the sellers were able to reach was very large, then of course, we know it was aggressive selling. Now finally, guys, my favorite is delta percentage. So what this does, and again, this is going to seem a little bit complicated at first. But again, once you've looked at it a few times, it won't. Look, guys, at the end of the day, once you get it, you won't need to be calculating any of this stuff whilst you're trading. I mean, this is why I put the table together, because you don't want to be doing this stuff whilst you're in the middle of busy trades. What this is telling me is just another measure in relative terms now, without looking at absolute numbers, of who's in control, sellers or buyers. How is it calculated? Don't take my word for it. I like to look for about 25% in one party's favor or another, depending on context, as I said. But don't take my word for it. Let's break it down, guys. I'm going to show you exactly how you get to 26.32. I've already calculated it, and I'm going to give you the numbers, but I want you to go away and just basically make sure that you do this calculation on a calculator or Excel spreadsheet or whatever yourself. So what all this is looking at as a percentage is who was stronger in terms of buying and selling. So what do I mean by that? Well, what was the total number of contracts traded in this candle? It was what? 36 plus 21, right? 57. Let me just make this a bit thicker. So 57 contracts traded in total. So in basic percentage terms, how many of those 57 were sellers? 36 over 57, right? So that is 63.2%. Again, do this on a calculator. There's no point in me wasting time doing this here. What percentage were buyers, guys? 21 over 57 is 36.8%. So approximately 37% were buyers. Can you see? 63%. All I'm doing is I'm taking the difference between those two, guys. Now, the difference between those two is 26.32 in favor of the sellers. That's why it's red, okay? So do it yourself on a calculator. You see the difference is actually 26.32 when you do that calculation. I'm quickly going to do this here. So we've got 135. 69 over 35 is 51, 51%. And then you've got 49%. So can you see it's approximately 2%? It's actually 2.2 in favor of the sellers, 51%. So that was a fairly even battle. Can you see it's telling me it's even? The delta was fairly even. The delta change wasn't that great. And the max and min del doesn't really tell me much. I mean, the sellers were able to get to maximum minus 13, which isn't really much. The buyers were able to get to a maximum delta in the whole bar of plus 22. So I know that bar is a fairly neutral bar. Can you see that? All five indicators, and I don't mean indicators like retail indicators. I mean, indications are telling me that the whole bar was neutral. This is why I love this chart, this bar, sorry, this box, because it's kind of like I can feed off each little element. And when everything lines up, I just know sellers are trapped. It's not always going to be the case, and it has been a little bit harder when the markets have obviously been in volatile periods, because hedge funds will pull algorithms. There won't be so much volume. So it can be more difficult to read. But that's about, as you know, things like coronavirus or the 2008 crash, they happen so rarely. Fine, you just understand when and how to actually read it in those times, i.e. you take your foot off the gas. But when times are normal, this stuff's great, because there's a lot of volume in the market. So things like this, where you've got volume analysis, it's really, really powerful. So anyway, so we've got 145 here. 106 over 145 is just approximately 73.1%. So sellers made up 73.1% of the total contracts traded in this bar. You can see it here anyway. Buyers were obviously a lot smaller, so that was 26.9%. So look, guys, the difference between that is 46, heavily in favour of the sellers. Do you remember we said what was the max delta? Peanuts. We already went over this. Min delta was strong, and the delta was fairly strong, given the recent environment. And that's minus 64. Guys, big sellers coming in, getting trapped. Was it any surprise when we went back above this area? And you can see in particular where those sellers were getting trapped. Once we got above this area, guys, these sellers started failing, and the market just shot up. We'll get onto this, what I'm looking for, in terms of these type of reversing actions. But it's already giving you hints of that here, what I'm looking at, basically, in this table. So again, 59 plus 39 is 98. I'm not going to do this here. 59 over 98 is about 60.2, and then 39 over 98 is 39. So that's 20% in favour of the seller. Now, I'm just going to do one more, so you can see in terms of the buyers. So there's a 307 plus 277 is 584. So of that 584, how many were buyers? Only 52.5%. It's actually 52.6, and 47.4, so fairly even. Difference is 5.4 in favour of the buyers. All right, guys, so you can see it's a very, very powerful indication of who's in charge, buyers or sellers. Now, look here, 52% heavily of all the contracts traded, mainly, it was buying. You can see that here in the individual deltas. But this is where you've got to be careful, because like I said, it doesn't take into account the absolute number of contracts traded. So here, it's all well and good getting excited, thinking, oh, there's a lot of buying. There's a lot buying 52%. But guys, you've got to combine that with a bit of logic in terms of how many buyers. Eight, four, peanuts. So really, it's meaningless. And we'll get on to this when we're using the footprint. Ideally, I like to see at least 100 contracts printing on the selling or buying side if I'm looking for aggression from either individually, because that tells me big players are in the market. Again, like I said, at this moment in time, we're in the middle of, obviously, coronavirus, and there aren't that many big buyers and sellers. But you could be watching this video much further down the line in a year, two, three years. All this stuff's going to be very valid. And more than likely, this module is still going to be in there. And if that's the case, you're going to see much bigger size. So what I typically keep, all of this is going to be relevant. Everything's going to be calculated in the same way. It's not going to make any difference, except for the fact that you're going to see all the big players participating again. And I'm looking for about 100 contracts plus. But again, that varies seasonally as well. It's not only because of coronavirus. It could be summer period. It's more quiet. Obviously, after September, everyone comes back from holiday. It gets very busy. So guys, you've got to use your judgment a little bit. But hopefully, this is all going to help you. So I hope that helps you understand. We've gone through delta, delta change, max delta, min delta, delta percentage. I'm going to provide this to you. Play with it, guys. What we're going to do now is, when I get an opportunity, is I'm going to put together some videos, obviously, of some examples and stuff. But yeah, I just want you to be practicing, but not taking it too obsessively. I don't want you necessarily to be trading off this stuff yet, because we've still got to cover all the context. I only put this in at the start of the pro course, because like I said, I'm posting a lot of stuff on social media about it. And I think it's only fair that people get a chance to play around with it and see what I'm doing. But ultimately, guys, this is a very small part of the equation, the trading equation. And in fact, it's very, very almost a tertiary element. There's much more important elements, which we're now going to cover in the pro course. And my preference is that you would do those first. But it's fine. No big deal. As long as you're not trading live money on this, just mess about with it. If you've got any questions, let me know. I'll try and put as many examples as I can as and when I get some time, obviously, of me just using this and the type of things I look for. All right, guys. Thanks. All right, traders. I'm sure you're sick of the sound of my voice. But you'll be glad to know that I do go back and review everything that I'm putting out, just to make sure that the information is thorough. And I had noticed that I'd made an ever so slight error here. So obviously, I was rushing. And I put a plus sign instead of a minus sign by mistake. So obviously, here, where you had the delta accumulating, as in adding up, so 5 plus 5 is 10 plus 5 is 15. Obviously, minus 20 contract will take you to minus 5. But what I would suggest, it really makes no difference. The principle is exactly the same. It wouldn't have made any difference to the example. But I can be a little bit obsessive when it comes to these minor things. So what I would suggest is that when you come to review this, just treat that as 10, OK, guys? I tend to be quite pedantic about these things. I'm a little bit annoyed that I made that little error. But look, I was rushing through anyway. It's fine. It happens. Really no bigger deal. So if you treat that as a 10, it's going to be exactly the same when you come back to review this example. So if the candle opened here, 5 on the delta, all of these are essentially this number changing, don't forget. So 5 plus 5 is 10 plus 5 is 15. And then 10 contracts sold, 15 minus 10 is plus 5. Like I said, I got the sign the wrong way in the previous example. So when I went to do the rest of it, it threw me off a bit. But anyway, like I said, same principle. You got 10 sellers came in now, so you had plus 5. Then 15 sellers came in, and you had minus 10. So you see, they're all correct then if you just adjust that to 10. And then minus 10 plus 10 is 0 plus 5, right, plus 10. And again, so what would basically be happening is you'll see this number changing. It will go from 5 to 10. Then it'll be 15. Then it'll be plus 5. Then it'll be minus 10. Then it'll be plus 0, assuming in a perfect world where the candle's going up. Obviously, that isn't happening. But it's just to show you the point. And then it's the same thing. What's the maximum delta across here? Well, it's plus 15. What's the minimum? Minus 10. So that's what you see in the maximum. All right, guys, so apologies for that ever so slight typo that I'd made there, which then threw me off when I did the rest of them. But that's an easy fix for you. Just put the 10 in. All right, guys, thanks a lot. See you.