Okay, traders, really, really excited about this section because this is where you bring all your hard work you've been doing over the last two, three months together, and things should just really make sense to you, like, oh, wow, I now understand why Envy's got us doing this hard graft on individual things, which may have been boring and taken a lot of effort, but it's really going to start paying off very quickly in the sense that you're really going to understand what institutions are looking at in terms of the profile. So to do that, I need to introduce you to auction market theory, which is what I've written here, AMT, auction market theory, because essentially what we're going to be doing is I'm going to take a trade on the simulator, bringing all the things that we've been learning together. So, so far, you've done a great job, guys, on an individual basis, looking at what? So you've understood market orders, the demand side of buying and selling. You've understood supply, sitting passively on the bid and offer. Again, on the buy and sell side, that's in terms of supply. I mean, it seems like an age ago now, module one, Do you remember where we spoke about price in terms of the bid and the offer? And I believe I said to you guys, you're missing, you know, out of the six pieces of information, you're missing an additional four. Now you guys should be experts in that. And actually, you don't see the volume profile as well. But the point is, you should understand by now, not necessarily shape of profile and what that means, because we're going to discuss that now, but how a profile is formed. And if you don't go back, guys, and redo some of the modules where we discuss it, because it should be abundantly clear to you what is causing, just on a very basic level, these numbers in the profile to appear. So as a recap, you should already know, but it's whenever, what? Whenever market orders are taking place, right? Not the supply columns, purely demand. Whenever we see buying and selling taking place here and numbers appearing here, it's appearing there, right? So the point is that, as you can see now, this was the reason why I got you doing things on an individual basis, because I really needed you to understand that it's demand taking place on the buy and sell side here that's causing the profile to build in this area. Do you remember the banana market example where we were roughly trading between, honestly, I've completely forgotten, maybe $10 and $12. Forgive me if I'm wrong, but I think it was something around $10, $11, $12, where we said our typical box of bananas, and then we went out, and then we came back in. Well, we went out, and we came back in. Guys, you've got to understand that, essentially, this is happening in ... I'm just going to delete all of this. This is happening everywhere in life. I'm going to talk in a minute about a carton of milk, but we could apply this, as I keep saying, to anything you want. It's even happening in non-tangible elements, in terms of things going on throughout your day, for example, that are not measured in monetary terms. You could draw a profile around. But look, at the end of the day, I'm not a life specialist. I'm a trader, so I'm going to just talk about financial markets and products. But the point is, you've got to understand, guys, this is not an indicator. All this is, is it's measuring transactions taking place. Now, would you agree transactions are taking place everywhere in the world, on everything, right? So if you think about a carton of milk, let's just say it's $1.50. I don't know how much it is where you live, but let's just say it's approximately $1.50, which sounds about right to me. You can think of whatever price you want in your country. But would you agree, guys, January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, all the way to December, generally, that's going to be the price of a carton of milk. Yeah, it might go up to $1.60 in some shops. It may be $1.40 in other shops. But essentially, that's approximately going to be the price of a carton of milk, right? Now, the point here is that they may not be recording this data in terms of a volume profile. But guys, when I say volume profile, it's not an indicator. What you need to understand is that even the price of everyday goods, products, services have a volume profile. Think about it. What exactly is this? Would you agree that's the price? Now, let's look at German. Go back and look at the coronavirus Instagram video I did or any of the other videos I did. And if you're not sure, send me a message. I'll point you in the right direction where I had the frequency distribution of the range. Every time we had a certain range, I recorded it. And then each record would just go on top of each other. And that's what caused the shape of the distribution that I showed. Well, guys, think about it. You can apply this to the price of a carton of milk. Let's say you were a worker. Firms are doing this all the time. You probably just, you may realize it or you may not. But instead of plotting it this way, they're plotting it this way. So think about it. That's 150. That's 140. That's 160. OK, guys. Now, I'm thinking of the best way to explain this. OK, let's say you stood at the end of a road of a row of supermarkets and shops, right, in a busy high street. Would you agree they sell milk generally in several shops? Could be small shops, big shops, wholesalers, supermarkets, whatever. Every time someone bought a carton of milk, you stood outside and you did a survey, guys, and you said to them, how much did you pay for a carton of milk? Every time someone walked out of a shop and you recorded it, OK, this is done all the time. This is how surveys are done, guys. How do you think economic data is released? It's all done in a similar manner to this, but obviously on a bigger scale where people are asking companies to give surveys. That's how you get all these manufacturing indexes and whatever you see released. There's a profile, guys. This is what you need to understand. It's nothing to do with indicators. This is where you're learning to be a professional trader. This is exactly what the institutions are looking at for the reason I'm about to show you. So anyway, you're doing a survey about milk, right? And stick with me because this is very relevant to the way I'm going to be taking the trade on the simulator shortly. Would you agree, guys, if the carton of milk is about 1.50 where you live, every single person that walks down and tells you how much they paid is approximately going to be about 1.50, 1.40. It's going to be around that price. So imagine you were standing there and every time someone told you the price, next to the price, you just made a tally. You just did a bar to represent one unit. So this is units 1, 2, 3, and so on and so forth. Would you agree you're going to go 1, the next person comes out and he'll say, yeah, I paid 1.50, 2, oh, yeah, I paid 1.55. So you just do 1. Now this will go on like thousands of people are buying milk every day. You literally stood there and every time someone came out, you asked them how much it was. Would you agree pretty much everyone is going to be in this range? So maybe 800 or 900 people will have bought at 1.50. So this will keep, you keep putting a unit every time it goes up. 1.40, yeah, a few people and then a few people here and then very few people buying in this area. Look guys, what are you doing? You're building a profile. Okay, that is exactly what this is. It's a profile of transactions. This is why I got you guys to understand the difference between market orders and supply. Because, excuse me, if you think about it, right, every time this could just as easily, how this is 1.50 here, this, all you do is just flip it sideways. Forget about these prices. Imagine this price was $1.50 here. Every time someone bought a carton of milk, what are they doing? What are they doing, guys? They're placing a market order, right? Whenever someone buys the treasury, as you know, you click there, you aggressively want to buy. Guys, what are they doing? Supermarket is on the supply side, sitting here on the offer saying, there's my carton of milk, 1.50, take it or leave it. They're the passive person in this transaction. You're the aggressor. You've just walked into the supermarket and made the aggressive decision to take that price, right? You haven't sat there on the bid. You've actually gone and lifted the offer. Do you remember the blank area, which then causes this to change? I hope you can now see why this is going on when you buy a chocolate bar, when you buy a haircut, when you buy anything, guys. So we're going to, I don't want to, I mean, it seems like actually I've probably gotten into a lot of the details I wanted to in the pro course about auction market theory, but you know what I'm thinking? Might as well just get you guys started so you can, because what it is, I want you to come away from the foundation. I was thinking, yeah, oh, it's making sense now. Why Envy made us spend so long watching this thing being built? It's so boring. Guys, this is why. Because you're now going to be experts in understanding what this thing is being built. I can assure you when I was in professional firm, many people around me took shortcuts and just used this as some sort of indicator that, oh, when the market reaches this area, I'm going to, guys, that's the problem with books and taking shortcuts. You don't understand. This was a big turning point in my career for me, and I'm sorry to waffle on about this stuff, but it's so important. And I love sharing this with you guys because I see the amount of crap out there being sold about technical indicators. And really, the turning point for me early on in my career was understanding that the profile is not an indicator. It's actually just recording. I mean, I still sit here and laugh about it. It's just recording data, just like is what is happening around the world. Even when you get on a bus, the bus company is recording this data. All they're doing is they've got a time and sales, if you think about it. They've got a computer. Every time someone pays a dollar for a bus ticket, it records one transaction. One, one, or a family get on, four. That's the time and sale, guys. I hope you can see now why I showed you time and sales. Where does the time and sales then get recorded? Here. As the transactions are taking place here, the time and sales is the demand column. It's getting recorded there. I hope you can see that, guys. So instead of it being a financial market where transactions are being ordered, market orders are taking place, the demand side, it's a bus ticket. So what would you see around $1? Instead of it being a profile this way, it'll be a profile the other way. And you'll just see around $1 lots of transactions. It's a lot of volume. So you'll have quite a bit of volume around $1. This is the carton of milk, $1.50. You know, as I said, you're standing there doing the survey, and I'm sure you'll agree. You're not going to have a lot of people saying, oh, I paid $5 for a carton. Oh, I paid nothing. Just don't happen, guys. Thousands of people are buying milk every day in your local area, and they're all approximately paying the same price. Now, here's the other bit that also, still to this day, I find it so fascinating. And how amazing it is that things like milk are the same as financial markets is, you know, we talked about $1.50 being the price. And then if you think about it, it's not always $1.50 on the dot, is it? And this is why sometimes I'm a bit hesitant about recommending books to people because they like to be so precise, and human beings like to be precise. And this is the beauty of profile is it's slightly, it's not imprecise, but it's more a reflection of reality in the sense that, yeah, most people are going to buy at $1.50, but there'll be some that, you know, obviously one shot might be a $0.10, $0.05 more expensive or cheaper. But so the majority, would you agree, there's going to be very little transactions up here at the high prices and low prices would be like that. My point is, it's going to be approximately between a range of, a small range of prices. Guys, look what's happened. What's essentially happening is the market is giving us a huge amount of feedback here. It's not an indicator. I've just shown you, it's just transactions taking place. Where's the predictive element in that? There isn't. It's a fact. You know, people are buying milk for $1.50. They're trading a market transaction. Guys, where's the argument? I can't argue with someone and say, no, you didn't pay $1.50. He's going to be like, mate, I paid $1.50. Here's the receipt. This is why I find it madness that people even use technical indicators. I really can't understand how that stuff is even used, because what you're basically doing with a technical indicator is you, this is what you're doing to all this data. You're covering it up. I'm sorry to do this, but literally, this is what you're doing. You've got the data in front of you and you're basically saying, nah, I don't want that. It just seems to me completely crazy that people are not using transactional data. So the final point I make is, and why I say this, and we will move on and talk about this much more in the Auction Market Theory section in profile, is because essentially, I guess what I'm getting at, you'll hear me talk about this sometimes in the Discord is, what you're trying to do with this stuff is you're trying to figure out what's the fair price. Now, again, what amazes me is if you ask someone, what's the fair price of milk? They're going to know, aren't they? Because they're buying milk every day. They're probably, if you pay $1.50 in your local area, whatever it is, it doesn't matter to me. The point is, the fair price is going to be obvious to you. You're going to say, oh, it's about $1.50. Well, guys, how do you know that? Because you've paid $1.50. Guys, we're trying to find out what's the fair price of the Treasury market today. This applies to pound-dollar, euro-dollar, S&P 500. Guys, this is what I am looking at every single day. When I wake up, I'm looking, oh, what's the fair price? Where does the market transact today? Where is the market happy to transact? So my point is this, what I said about technical indicators. If we look at the price of milk, if we look at the price of milk, it's at $1.50. So we just said that the majority of transactions take place in this range. If you're a shop, the reason you might want to do this analysis is because at the end of the year, you're trying to work out what's the likely price you can sell stuff at next year. Obviously, companies are doing this all the time. And sellers of milk are going to do this all the time, right? They're going to be sitting there thinking, all right, what price should we sell at next year? Guys, they're going to look at their time and sales, which I already said is their book of transactions. And essentially, this is what they're looking at. They may not draw a profile. And actually, I can tell you they do. But they just draw it this way. It's a normal distribution or whatever shape the distribution comes out at. We will get into normal distributions and a little bit of probability and statistics in the pro course. But don't worry. It's not too complicated. It's fairly basic stuff. But what are they trying to do? They're trying to figure out what's the fair price? Where are sellers willing to sell? And where are buyers willing to buy? Now, to do that, this is what they're doing, guys. They're just looking at where have we transacted? Guys, they are not drawing a trend line between 140, 150. They're not looking at some moving average. They're not looking at some divergence. And guys, it's complete garbage. What they are looking at, would you agree, is where have we sold milk? Simple as that, guys, to get the fair price. This is ultra market theory. Go on YouTube. You'll see a lot of stuff about this. I think they make it too complicated. Over years, this is all you need to know. 300 pages, they'll talk about this stuff in a book. This is basically what you need to understand. And this is the extent of it, is that you can apply this same theory here. And it's not theory, because at the end of the day, it's reality. What do I mean by that? Have transactions taken place at 137.15? Yes, they have. You cannot argue with that. And I know I keep going on about this. But what it is, I want you to move away from technical analysis. It's very much about trying to predict the future based on a very false perception of the past. Here, what you're doing is you're looking at the facts, and you're letting the market tell you where the fair value is. Because we know for a fact, and this is the point, is facts, we don't need an indicator to tell us that today, the market has been transacting around this area. So guys, anyway, this is ultra market theory. I know I talked a lot about it, but it's really, really, really important, because essentially, this is what I'm doing all the time. And it's become more clear in the pro course, and also in this trading example, why I'm doing this. And that's why it was so important. I spent such a long period of time going over this. Because I want you to understand, all we are doing is basing stuff on facts. I'm not interested in using some indicator to predict something based on just information. What essentially indicators are doing is they're taking this information, facts, and they're creating a fluff around it. Essentially, they are distorting it, was the word I'm using. They're distorting what is in front of you. And it's just criminal, really. So you can tell I'm obviously not the biggest fan of that stuff. But what is, I'm trying to make you understand why. So that's ultra market theory is essentially to do with the fact that there's people transacting at prices in the market for goods, which essentially determine what their fair price is. So we can apply that to anything. Now, the last thing I want to say to you guys is we can obviously see here that the fair price, I'm going to put FP here, was here. Then we saw a shift downwards and we saw volume building here. So potentially, this could become fair price. We don't know that. But my point is that, so I want to come back to the milk example just very briefly. I want to show you what is going on here. So we've already said that approximately in this area is the milk market for the whole year, right? So if we think of this as a chart of milk over time, it's just doing this. And you'll see this, the market here is just doing this in treasuries for a little while. What happened then? It pops down. Then it started doing this. Can you see hardly any transactions took place here? So this move was fast. Guys, what's that the equivalent of in the milk market? So would you agree sometimes you get supply side, demand side shocks, you get fundamental changes in markets that cause prices to obviously move? Now, in the milk market, guys, simply, all that's happening is, let's say, obviously, cows produce milk. Now, let's say that a huge proportion of cows started to develop some sort of disease. Now, obviously, it'll be down to perception in terms of how the public perceives that to be. But let's say the public perceived that to be a bad thing in the sense that they were now worried about the milk market. In the sense that they were now worried about drinking milk because they were worried about contracting this disease that obviously the majority of the population of cows have got. So would you agree then if people are worried about it and they no longer see the fundamental value in milk as being at $1.50? Why? Because they just don't want it anymore until this situation is sorted. Price is going to drop, guys, right, to let's say $1. Then what you'll see is market will transact there for a little bit longer. And that's all that's happening. It's getting more profile being built down here. Same thing here. There was a fundamental shift. Something happened. I don't know what it was, and it moved down. And I'll show you later in the Pro Course why I don't really, I look at fundamentals, but more just from an interest. I have a keen interest in knowing what's going on in the economy and in financial instruments, but I don't really use it to trade. And I'll show you why that is, in particular in the Pro Course. But just for the purpose of this example, the reality is there probably is some, especially in the longer term, there's some fundamental factors that are driving shifts in prices. But the point is that those shifts cause shapes of profiles, right, in terms of the demand, which we already said. So we drop down to $1. Same thing happened here. Here is the most crucial part of this video. OK, guys, so let's say that all the cows get healthy again. This issue with this virus that has spread is now cleared. And given the all clear, would you agree? Everyone now wants milk again. Guys, this is where profile, to me, is the most powerful tool in the world, not only to do with financial markets, but in terms of any sort of pricing, demand, and supply side analysis that any company, corporation, trader, whatever you want to call it, can do in the world. Why is that? Because if all the cows get healthy, what is the most obvious price that the price of milk is likely to gravitate to? Think about it. Pause the video if you have to. OK, well, clearly, guys, it's here, isn't it? That's the benchmark, back in the zone of fair value, fair price. We've been trading here, $1.50, for how long? The whole of last year, as we said, January, February, March, blah, blah, blah, before all this happened. Guys, it's just going to come back here. That's what's going to happen. And what you need to realise is this is exactly, forget about it, no, I mean, really, just sometimes I don't know whether to laugh or cry when I see these indicators saying, oh, there's divergence, there's trendline, and that's what's causing this complete and utter crap, guys. What's causing the price to move up is that the market, something has changed, and they want to go and test the next fair price and see if transactions take place there. That's exactly what happens in financial markets. You'll see it as we get more into the pro course and we look at examples. All the market is constantly doing is it's moving from one area of fair price to another area of fair price. Think about it. At the end of the day, guys, we're not magicians, right? We don't know. If you're a milk manufacturer and you need to sell milk, or you're a supermarket and you decide you want to sell milk after this little issue happened, where prices went down to one dollar, everything's back to normal, where are you going to put your price, guys? Are you just going to stick your finger in the air? Are you going to go and get a moving average? Are you going to use half all the nonsense on your retail platform indicators? No, you're not. You've got this data. You're going to go back to your historical prices that you've been selling milk at, where there was huge demand here. And you're going to use that, aren't you? Of course you are. It's obvious. You're going to go back and you're going to sell it to where you sold it before when things were in the same fundamental state. Guys, this is exactly what institutions are doing. I can tell you for a fact, because obviously I've worked with algorithms in the past. Guys, algorithms, as you've seen on the supply side, are the market. And I can assure you, every institution, every single algorithm is programmed to read this. I can assure you, this is what they're reading. They couldn't give a monkeys about a 21-day moving average. It's just garbage. It doesn't mean anything. If someone wants to tell me what it actually means in terms of where price should be, in terms of fundamental value, please let me know. But as far as I can tell, it's logical that value is clearly where the market has been happy to trade. So in the treasury market, that was here. In the milk market, that was here. OK, we had a fundamental shift. Then we came back. We came back. Now, yeah, I agree. Our wish markets were this simple, that we always come back. Generally, in a simplistic market, like milk, we will generally go back and continue to trade around 150 again. Because, as you know, there's only several factors, small factors, large factors, but individual factors. Things like financial markets can obviously become very complicated. And there's so many factors that we do see shifts, permanent shifts in fair value. So the equivalent of that would be, you know, for example, if market was trading here and I don't know, for whatever reason, obviously, nowadays, it's all done mechanically where we extract the milk from cows before it was done manually. But let's say for whatever reason, the materials required to create the machines that extract milk manually from cows became scarce. You couldn't get them anymore. And you had to go back to doing this process manually. Obviously, to produce milk is going to become very expensive. So would you agree the price is going to shoot up to, let's say, $2? Again, you'll see this on the profile where the profile will build value here. Would you agree, guys, once it's become scarce and you can never get that material back, that's it? The price isn't coming back to $1.50. That's going to become the new normal. That's all that's happening in financial markets all the time, is prices will shift. So that's basically auction market theory. I know it took a long time to explain it, but it's very, very important. That's why I want you to understand it. Now, how do I use to trade it? That was really why I needed to spend time for you to understand, because what it is is I didn't want you to think of this as, oh, Envy's told us when the market gets to this area, I've got to do something. When it gets to this area, I've got to do... Guys, that's how, you know, where people fail is just being sold all this crap like systems do this, do that. Forget that. I want you to critically think for yourself that, OK, this is a great place to trade because it's fair value, because it isn't fair value, or because, oh, I get it, this is what the market is trying to achieve. And it's clearly shown me that. So let me show you what I mean. So basically, now we know, would you agree that that's fair value? There's also some value being built down here. So if we had a chart, the chart is going to go like that, and then it'll come down, and it's going to go like that. Can you see why in institutions in the first year, they don't even want you to look at a chart? Because, well, guys, all the information you need is here. You don't need a chart. Now, don't get me wrong. I've obviously moved away from this, and yeah, I don't want you to trade on this. And there's reasons why we do want a chart, because without trying to scare you, this is profile on what? One day. Guys, you can build profiles for a week. You can build profiles for several days. You can build profile for a month, a quarter. One year, I'm doing that. I've learned to bring profile analysis over many, many time frames. I'm also looking at, excuse me, the VWAP. The VWAP is essentially the profile, but on a dynamic intraday basis. So look, this is going to confuse you so a lot, so let's not get into that now. Let's just imagine this was the only profile that existed for now. So you can see why just by looking at profile, you get a feel for where the chart is. Now, how do you trade this? So the reason I had to hammer home the point, and I know it's probably incredibly boring listening to me talk at you about fair value, is because, guys, the point is here, would you agree, fair value, there's no edge. If the price of milk is $1.50 and that's fair, would you agree, if you're trying to make profit on milk, you're not going to walk into a shop and pay $1.50, because what are you going to sell it for? $1.50. Guys, that's the market. It's fair value. There's no edge there. So when I was trading historically on the depth of market, I would not be interested in necessarily trading in this area, because I don't know in which direction, obviously, the price could go. What I would be more interested in trading at is either if prices are way from fair value, right, because then I have a profit opportunity. Think about it. If the market starts to go down, I know what? Well, it might be heading to $1. So same way here. Now, this is called a value area. The value area, the reason it's called that is because there's one standard deviation on a normal distribution. But we're going to talk about that in the pro course. But all you need to remember is, do you remember how I said, and you know this, guys, don't take my word for it, go walk into town and see what the price of milk is. It's not going to be identical. It's going to vary by $0.5, $0.10, isn't it, up or down. So this is a very approximate area. That's all this is. It's just telling us, yes, the market agrees on price. But guys, unfortunately, life isn't that simple. Not everyone, we're humans. We don't agree on an individual price. And you see this in pound dollar, for example, you might see the market just ranging up and down, up and down, like $130, $131, $130. Guys, that's 100 pips. End of the day, that's quite a wide range. And that's what the market is doing is it is kind of finding a range of prices where it's happy. But the point is, it's not this area and it's not this area. It's this area. Same as here, kind of $140 to $160. That's where the market's happy with milk. So here's the key. This is what I'm doing. So these areas where there's very little transactions taking place, which you see here, no one bought milk as it was coming down. They just started transacting again in this area. Here was just crazy selling going on there. It just shot down. So you can see it moved fast in this area because no one was there. There were no one on the bids. There was, but it was very thin. So it was just aggressive selling and it happened so quickly that... Do you see there wasn't two-way transaction guys going on, whereas here there's two-way transaction and that's why you're building the profile here. And then obviously here you had the bulge, which you see here as well. So my point is, sorry about that. My point is that the profiting opportunity is, for me, is not where fair value is, but it's moving away from fair value, either side. So I'm looking for trades that are breaking out of this zone or out of this zone. Why? Clear target area, right guys, to the next area where the market has shown me that that is fair price. Guys, no indicator doing some ridiculous prediction based on some random percentages or numbers. I mean, come on, 21 day average or whatever. What's 21, guys? Someone just literally rolled a dice and decided that three rolls or four rolls of the dice adds up to 21. So that is literally how ridiculous that stuff is. This is what the market has told me. And look, guys, don't take my word for it. It's there on your depth of market. Open up your depth of market and look where has transactions taken place in this area. Sorry, it's getting incredibly messy here. So that becomes my target, right? I want to know where's the market previously traded decent volume at. So what I'm doing is, again, two things. One is I'm looking for a break away from value. OK. So we're going this way and I'm going to try and target this area. Or, guys, this is much more of a, how do I say, a nimble trade. These are more like trend trades, right? And not, I hate to use the word trend trading. I mean, it really gets under my skin a little bit because it's just complete garbage what you see about, you know, I keep saying it, but you see all this stuff that people talk about trend trading. It isn't trend trading. Guys, what the market is doing is exactly what the milk market is doing or the chocolate bar market is doing when there's a fundamental shift. It's looking for the next area of fair value. The market is an auction machine, guys. It's always looking for an area where people agree on supply and demand. It's literally basic economics, guys, 101, you know, where you've got the supply and demand curves, et cetera, et cetera. And I think I did a little video on this in terms of price and then, obviously, quantity. So that's your demand curve and that's your supply curve. It's just where it meets. And if this doesn't make sense to you, don't worry. But obviously, some of you who've done economics, you'll understand that this is all the market's really doing is it's looking for areas of supply and demand. And again, I want to reiterate, guys, whatever I just drew there, don't worry about it. I've just realized I've probably drawn it behind my head because I can't actually see myself on this screen. But I think I'm in this little quarter here. So I'll probably draw it behind my head. So ignore that anyway. It was just for those that might be familiar with economics. But essentially, it's not important at all. As long as you understand this very basic concept that the market has shown us that it's traded in this area and I'm looking for it to move down. Or in this instance, the nimble trade, which is go back to fair value whenever it moves a little bit out. OK, so once I've identified this area, the value area, I'm either looking, as soon as we get out of it, I'm thinking, oh, the market just popped out. Milk is at 140, 135. It should be at 150. Let me take it back. Take it back. And if it goes just above, so if it goes 165, 170, oh, milk's a bit high there. That doesn't make sense. It should be at 150. So I'll take it back into the value area. How do I know this? Well, I'm looking for action here. I'm looking for action here. Market orders, absorption. That's what I'm going to show you in this example to help me decide. Obviously, if I don't see any buyers trying to stop the market as it pops down, then I know, OK, I need to be taking it down. If I see a lot of support coming in, not support like lines and all that stuff, I mean support in terms of absorption or market orders buying, then I know, guys, I've got a good chance to play this back in to fair value. So those are the two things. Make a note of them, OK? We either, I'm just going to write it down, back to value or away from value. What the industry has somehow managed to do is call this second bit trend trading when it isn't. Let's try and delete that from the vocabulary because we've just learned now that it's actually just moving to the next level of fair value. All this is, the industry has decided to call this a range trading. When actually it isn't, all it's actually doing is playing the edges of fair value, OK? OK, so once we've established fair value, we're either playing the edges back or if we want, if we think it's going to break out of value, we're going to the next value. All right, guys, I know that's very, very long and I apologize, but I hope that that's added some value to you. No pun intended. So I'm going to play the example now. I'll probably do it on a separate video just to give you a bit of a break and let this digest. Just to give you a heads up, what I'm actually doing in the trading example, and I will explain it as I'm doing it as well, is we're basically taking a trade. So what I did on the simulator is I'm taking, so I didn't, what it is is that the, obviously people are playing breakouts, right, at the highs and lows of days. So on the example, if I remember correctly, there's a profile near the, and it's actually near the high of the day, but let's say it was the low of the day. So I know approximately that's fair price there. So if the price is, say it comes down to the low of the day, would you agree, as I said to you before, I'm playing, doing two things. That's all I'm ever doing. I'm taking it back to value, right, back to this area or what? Away from value. But the point is here, do you see, we don't see any other value. Well, guys, this is where charts, and this is why I've evolved into using charts now, is there'll be a profile for the previous day, previous month. So I use those areas to trade into. Okay. Now the point is for the example I show you, I don't actually take a breakout of value because the alternative is price is here, I go back into the next value. Well, it's very similar to this example here, but what I'm actually doing is I'm playing a mean reversion trade, essentially is the word for it, but I'm doing it on the top, but essentially it's the same thing. So what I'll be doing is, value's there, the market's creeping down, and I see, you know, action on the depth of market that leads me to believe that people want to fade it. Where's the obvious target for it to go back to? Back to value. So that's the trade I'm taking, but from the top, back into value. All right, guys, hope that was a good, and yeah, I'll see you shortly on the next video where I'm playing this out. Cheers, guys. Guys, sorry, you just needed to add this bit on as if you hadn't heard enough of my voice, but the point was, where I said to you before, you've got, you can see this on a chart like this, then it comes down and you've got it there. Right, guys, I completely forgot to tell you that I've actually got this on the next slide. So can you see it? That's essentially what it is, is the market's just come down, this bit, is there, fair value, right? Like we said with the milk example, then it comes back down, and you've got more value being built here in this region. And essentially, that is all that all that I'm doing, market's doing, algorithms are doing, is they're looking for any clues. Are we going to bust out of this value? Where are we going to go? There. Are we going to turn around? If we've just popped out, where are we going to go? Back here. That's all the market is doing all day long, guys. Are we going to bust out of here, or are we going to return here? So that's returning to value, and this is breaking out of value. We're going to go into this in the pro course a lot more, because obviously I'll be doing this on charts, and we'll give these things names. But essentially, it's just one or the other. You're either going back into value, or you're looking for a move out of value. And then obviously down here, I'll be looking for a previous day if I could find any sort of value. So I just wanted to show you how it looks on a chart. You can do this yourself, but you can probably see why in professional firms, they just say to new traders for the first year, look, guys, you don't need a chart. Just trade the profile. That's all they're doing. This is exactly what they're doing in professional firms, because they're just saying, look, there's the profile. If it breaks out, you either trade it back, or you go to the next area. If it breaks out, you either trade it back, or you go to the next area. All right, guys? So those are the crucial areas is fair value, and then obviously these thin areas are the ones where you're looking to break through and then go into the next area. But that was the chart. All right, guys? See you on the next video. Cheers.