Okay traders, so in this section, as mentioned at the start of all the exercises, eventually I wanted you to build up towards watching the depth of market side by side with some of the Discord levels that I'm posting in the chatroom in Discord, which obviously I provide for free. And actually the purpose of that, kind of ironically, is I want you to see not how you can necessarily profit from using the depth of market, using those levels, that's why I say it's kind of ironic because you're probably thinking that's the whole thing you've been building up to, but actually it's the opposite. What I'm actually trying to highlight to you is just how thin of a market Pound Dollar, Euro Dollar currencies are relative to much more orderly markets such as the E-mini S&Ps and the Treasuries, in particular obviously Treasuries are very thick and liquid. That doesn't mean I want you to trade Treasuries, but I definitely think people should be looking at more orderly markets like the ES, the S&P 500, in particular in the futures. Obviously look, I understand very well, having worked in the currency markets myself at an institution just how large the currency market is, but guys, that's at an over the counter level. You don't have access to that, all this stuff you're told on social media that this is the market you should be trading, unfortunately these guys that are telling you that are completely clueless and I have no hesitation saying that because they are clueless. They haven't worked in the environment to actually understand what makes up those trillions of dollars of foreign exchange flow that you always hear about, the five trillion dollars. Again, I know I say this a lot and I'm quite blunt about it, but it's all garbage guys. At the end of the day, a lot of that flow is random. People are transacting foreign exchange for many different reasons. Believe it or not, someone going on holiday, holding currency and then using that currency is going to have a much more lasting impact on the foreign exchange market than a local. Even trading several lots, for example, is not going to have as much impact as someone just merely buying $1,000, $2,000 to go on holiday with. Most teenagers are doing that and they're doing it randomly, so you need to understand a huge part of that five trillion number you hear about, that really does make me worry that people are saying it as if it's a good thing that the FX market is five trillion and that's why you should be looking at it. Actually, like with most things in the retail FX world, the opposite is true. The fact that it's so large and the flows are so random, clearly it's not impossible to trade. I trade it very profitably, I'm trading in the Discord, I obviously have my FX book that I show. I'm happy to highlight where it's verified by third parties that I make money. You could argue, hang on then, but you're telling us that the foreign exchange market is a very difficult market and it's random and we should go to orderly markets, yet you're trading it and making money from it consistently. The point is guys, this is why I've just given you this whole lecture, it wasn't to bore you. Everything I say is with a point, it's leading to a point and the point of that is essentially that yeah, I am doing that, but what you're going to notice is I'm doing it in a very different way. This will become much more abundantly clear in the pro course, but when I'm trading foreign exchange, because of this random nature, you will notice I'm not taking as much out of the market because all this stuff about trend trading and taking 50 points, 100 points out of it, it's just airy fairy dreamland stuff. That's never going to happen consistently in the foreign exchange market. In orderly markets, I mean I don't really want to push you towards crude oil at the moment, but that's a really nice orderly market, believe it or not, especially in the futures where you can consistently, maybe not take 100 points out of, but you can significantly increase the amount of range, daily range that you're obtaining when you're in these orderly markets like S&P 500. With foreign exchange markets, it's completely doable, and I get it, and I know that everyone who comes from the non-institutional space, which is going to be the majority of people watching this, which isn't a bad thing at all, it's just that obviously they don't have that broader view like I have of having not only traded in the currency space, obviously, extensively, but also having participated just as extensively in other markets that are not foreign exchange. So I've kind of seen the characteristics that drive all the markets, and I guess I could sit here and talk for an hour, but I guess to get to the point and to stop this turning into a big ramble, what I'm trying to get across to you guys is that the way that I'm trading foreign exchange is very, very different and much more advanced than the way I'll be trading, for example, some of the more established futures markets, so S&P 500, obviously crude oil is a big market, trading almost a million contracts a day, I believe it's about 800,000 on average, e-mini S&P, well over a million contracts a day, treasury market, well over a million contracts a day, and the currency market, yeah, I get it, it's a five trillion dollar market, but you've got to forget about 90% of that flow, guys, because it's done in the gray market, you know, we have to kind of live in the world of reality, we can only participate in the information that's available to us, and typically you're only going to have about 5-10% at best of that foreign exchange information available to you, so even if you look at something like a futures market in FX, go and look it up on the CME, you're looking at about 100,000 contracts, and that's for the most liquid currencies like euro dollar, pound dollar, guys, start going to some of the cross currencies, some of the more exotic currencies, you know, like the Aussie dollar does have some, but when I mean like cross rates, so like euro Aussie, pound Aussie, guys, the volume, the transparent volume in these markets is peanuts, I would highly recommend, take a step back from those, if you must trade currencies, try to stick to the majors, where at least there is some transparency, but the whole point is, and I know the point of this is, so you can watch me trade on the depth of market, and we're going to get to that, and believe me, I'm going to give you a really great example where I've actually traded against the discord levels, the only reason I'm giving you this caveat right now is, because I don't want you to get this false perception that you're going to be able to watch my discord levels, we'll use the depth of market and suddenly start killing it, basically, in the market, what you need to understand is, yeah, you can build up towards that level, but in the pro course, I'm going to get you trading much more established markets, and it's all to do with value, fair price, where we talked about milk, fair price of milk, we know is about dollar 50, when you're trading thicker markets, the profiles are much clearer where fair price is, as you'll see here in this example I'm about to go into, things where there's obviously not as much transparency and volume is spread across many different prices, which is typically what happens in foreign exchange, because the flow is so random, it's very difficult for the market to establish where the fair price is, and that's why you'll notice, you know, pound dollar, I'm taking 10, 15, 20 on like a very unusual day, maximum, usually more about 10 points, pips, and pound yen, I take a little bit more, because obviously there's a bit more of a range in that, typical daily range is a bit wider, and the example I'm going to give you is in the middle of the coronavirus, so obviously the ranges are wider, so I'm taking a bit more in this, I think I take about 30 points, but you've got to remember, guys, at the end of the day it's all relative, people are talking in the coronavirus, the actual range is about 400 pips for the week, typically the range in a week might not be more than 100, so you're talking four times the range, so you've got to remember, a lot of these guys that are trying to get you to trade FX, are trying to make you think you can take 50, 100, 200, 300 points during environments like this, complete fantasy, 30 points is the equivalent of me taking 10 in a normal market, and most people think, ah, 10, you're scalping, you're this, absolute nonsense, at the end of the day, the reason I'm taking such a little amount, as you'll see, is because the market is establishing little pockets of value, but they're so spread out across the depth of market, you'll see when you open up a foreign exchange depth of market, it's very different to a treasury depth of market, and you're gonna see that more and more as we go into the pro course, so what I'm gonna do now, anyway, I just wanted you to know this, so you know the beast that you're coming up against when you try to trade foreign exchange, it's incredibly advanced, perfectly doable, you're all capable of doing it, but don't get carried away is all I'm saying, do the exercises, watch it, fine, got no problem with that, but, you know, don't go too crazy and try and think that you're gonna be able to conquer the FX market by using the depth of market, it's gonna take a period of time, we'll have to work through, obviously, much more of the orderly markets, I'm gonna show you how value really works, then what you do is you apply it to the FX markets, and bring it all together, this will make a lot more sense in the pro course, so I apologise that I've given you a big lecture at the start, I just didn't want to give a false perception that, you know, this is how to trade the currency markets, it definitely isn't, all I'm trying to do is just differentiate between the different markets, for example, treasuries, and obviously here, using the depth of market in an FX environment to trade with, I'm gonna show you, it's very different, so as you'll notice, I have levels in the Discord chat, which I usually do at extremes, and you know I'm fading them, so all I'm doing there, guys, and I'm gonna show you when we start the example, is I'm doing the same thing, it's the ultra market theory, I'm looking at the recent range of the last few days, I'm trying to establish where the fair price is, where the bulge is, essentially, and then the edges is where I'm trading, so it's, as you know from the last example, if you've forgotten, go back and watch the start of the treasury dome video, where I'm going to the edge of value and I'm coming back in, I'm going to the edge of value and I'm coming back in, but it can get quite complicated, because that's value over a period of time, a larger period of time than a day, what you're gonna see in your trade now is this, but the depth of market has, if you think about it, a little depth of market within, so this is the big depth of market that I've circled and this is the little depth of market on the individual day depth of market that you're gonna see, so again, we're outside of value and I'm just gonna bring it back into value, but as part of being out of value on the bigger picture, so again, if this doesn't make sense to you, don't worry about it, it's one of the reasons I gave the whole lecture about, guys, be careful about starting to do this, my worry is that people are gonna see me do this and they're gonna be staring at the depth of market for the next few months with my discord, I don't need to do that, yeah, with the footprint and stuff, maybe you can start to do that once we establish the footprint module, but again, with this, I just want you to, again, compound your learning in terms of these factors and just see how we trade around the profile, slightly differently to how the treasuries are done, a little bit more advanced, and then my personal opinion is do it a few times for a couple of weeks with my levels if you want, and then after you finish that, I think you're pretty much done with the depth of market, ideally, guys, go back and do all the exercises again, you're gonna be, like I say, there is no limit to the amount of time you should be doing these exercises, but otherwise, just move on, obviously, to the pro course once you've done this for another couple of weeks, and therefore, you should by now, by the end of this period, once you've done this exercise for two weeks, should have spent a good three months in the depth of market, minimum, obviously, as I keep saying, six months ideal, but if you can do three months, I think it's good, good sort of sweet spot, and then you can move on to the pro course. Any questions, let me know, but I'm basically gonna start the video now, so if I just get rid of all this, okay, so what you can see here is I've got the Discord that you see every morning, I've got the, my, what do you call it, MetaTrader 4 chart, the retail chart that I have here, so you'll see my executions on a live, live account, which I took during the day, as I do all the time, so those of you that are on my Discord, obviously, you'll be familiar with this, and then you've got the depth of market, at the same time, running side by side, excuse me, so just as a reminder, I'm not gonna press stop, so don't worry, this video will now be pretty quick, we'll just go through the, it was 48 minutes, but we're just gonna go through the whole thing as I talk through it, but essentially, let's just remind ourselves of the things that we're watching for, but it's gonna be so much faster, guys, it's gonna be much more difficult for you to follow, don't worry about it if you don't get it, in fact, what I'm hoping people do, is they try this, and they think, whoa, it's way too fast, I'm gonna go back to Treasuries, I want you to go back to Treasuries for a little while, if you can, just to, again, establish these things, so Supply Side Games, right, so that was to do with, do you remember the orders changing, I'm just gonna put O Change, just because I've got limited space here, and then, again, we had Supply Side Games, but with Absorption, so I'm just gonna put ABS, right, three was Market Orders, so remember, these two, we're kind of gonna drop the, at least the Depth, so this side of it, when we get into the Pro Course, we're gonna drop the Depth of Market pretty much all together, but we're still gonna look at Market Orders, aren't we, because Market Orders are what, guys? Volume Profile, so we're still gonna look at Volume Profile, there's gonna be some Footprint stuff, so we'll continue to look at that, we'll look at Absorption, as you know, on the Cumulative Delta, when we get into that, so all of these things, basically, will be on a chart, but we won't be looking at the Supply Side in terms of orders changing, because we won't be able to see that on a chart, but that's fine, and then, obviously, the most important thing is number four, which is the Volume Profile, and, you know, are we going back into value, or out of value to the next value, right? So I'm just gonna put A, B, A is Reversion, so RE, very badly drawn, REV, there, and then this is, just put out, because you're gonna go out of value into the next value, right? So if none of that makes sense, you need to go back and do the previous video with the Treasury Depth of Market, but I'm gonna press Play here, so essentially, what's happened, so I can just give you some context, is this morning, earlier in the day, so this is a one-minute chart, so this just, and let me just check this, guys, one second, just wanna make sure that, see, what it is, is you'll just have to take my word for it, because it's, because what's gonna happen, if I zoom out of this, you're not gonna be able to see this properly, oh, there you go, so there's the time period, it's a one-minute chart, and you can see that that is about a three-hour period of a day, but what's actually been happening over the week is, so around the coronavirus period, we've been, I believe we've been going from about 120 down to 116, 120 down to, can you see what's been happening, guys? It's like the milk example, this is my point, and what have you got, a bulge like this, right? So I know, in my mind, fair price is somewhere in the middle, that's my $1.50 carton of milk. What have we done now? We've come right to the edge, right? It's about, so the edge here and here, I believe it was something like 120, and this was 115, right, or whatever the number was, and the reason I'm not showing you this, because it's a little bit more advanced, it's looking at value and profile in a much bigger timeframe, so I don't wanna get into that until the pro course, but essentially, it's no different to looking at profile on a depth of market in a much tinier timeframe. It's just micro, then obviously we're looking a bit more macro to gain context, and I believe we've got down right into the edge, and what am I doing? What did I say? I either wanna play down to the next area of value, or I wanna go back in, right, back up. Now, in this instance, I was trading this to go back up. I like this area, and again, this is why I say FX is actually much more advanced than you realize. In an orderly market like S&P 500, and even Crude Oil to some extent, guys, there's gonna be a lot of, because the volume is so transparent, and again, it's just unbelievable how people push FX to be the best market to trade in the world. It's complete garbage. These orderly markets are the best, and I'm gonna show you why. Obviously, I'll expand upon this in the pro course, but the reason why things like treasuries and much, to much more of an extent, S&P 500 and Crude to some extent as well, much better markets to trade, is because when you, do you remember what I said? When you get to these edges, you're looking for what? Clues in points one, two, and three. Are the buyers stepping in? Do we have absorption? Do we have, what are the buyers and sellers doing when we get to these opportune areas? Obviously, if you get to the edge, right, this bottom of this range, 120 to 115, would you agree, if the buyers show you clues, be it on the depth of market, on the chart, whatever, that they've had enough? They're absorbing, or buyers are stepping in aggressively, market orders, whatever the case may be. That's a big clue, isn't it? That, oh, okay, I get it. Buyers are in control at this edge, so I'm gonna take this. It's trade one that Envy was talking about. Back to value. The can of milk has dropped to 140, should be 150. Take it back. Or what's the alternative? You get to this opportune area, and sellers are still in control. They're slamming bids. There isn't absorption, or there is absorption, but it's on the offer side. And whatever are the clues that I'm gonna bring in and show you, you know, things that I haven't even introduced yet? Would you then agree, oh, I get it, sellers are in control. They're not interested in taking the carton of milk or pound dollar back up to fair price. Something has shifted in the market. It could be, you know, like we said with the cows, they got a disease and the price collapsed. But in your mind, you should be thinking, oh, okay, the right trade for me is trade number two, which is not to go back into value, but it's to go out of value to the next area of value. And that could be a previous day, previous week, whatever. And obviously we'll get into that in the pro course. It's beyond the scope of this is, unbelievably, we're still in the basic course, but, you know, that's how thorough you've got to be with this stuff, guys. So that's the context, okay? So, and in fact, I just remembered, the point, I gave so much detail about that, I forgot why I even said this, a very crucial point. Okay, so in orderly markets, those clues that I just talked about, you know, one, two, three, et cetera, et cetera, guys, they're available in the FX market. You don't really have these clues. Why? And again, it's so ironic. People talk about five trillion dollars, absolute nonsense. It's because so much of that volume is gray area, interbank or done, you know, randomly. It's just teenagers buying currency for random reasons. It's companies repatriating profits and they just need to do it because they need to do it. There's so many reasons, right? They have nothing to do with the chart. Whereas in the orderly markets like S&P, and I'll get into this more in the pro course, and the volume is all transparent. So this information, yeah, it's available in the FX market, but you'll notice on the depth of the market here how fast it is. Guys, unless you've been watching this thing for years, it's very difficult for you to spot the clues. I'm going to show you now anyway, but on a bigger picture, it's even harder for you to spot clues because it isn't as transparent. But as we get into the pro course, you know, I'll obviously try and show you some stuff. But my point is, I'm kind of using my experience here. So I've got, I've seen this enough times that if it gets down to this extreme, I kind of know that the probability is very, very high given how big the range is. And I'm also looking at, has the move been a straight line move? So, you know, had this move come down, gone up a lot, come down, gone up a lot, come down and then it hadn't been such a straight line move, I may have thought twice, but because it was such a straight line move, our new sellers were probably trapped and we needed to turn around. So just want to give you some of the overall context, which I won't obviously get into in this particular video, but that's the context. But I just wanted to give you that warning, you know, that the levels I'm choosing and making in the mornings are based on a lot of experience and much more advanced based on me having spent time on orderly markets for a long period of time. But anyway, it is what it is. I'm going to show you exactly what I saw on the depth. Now, so what happened is we came in and I said, I'm watching what? 1.1440. So I believe it was, you know, in the start of the day around here, three, four hours in advance, guys, I kind of knew if we got down to 1.1440, the rough area. And look, guys, I'm not using no indicator, some maths equation, nothing. That stuff, knowing that level is based on obviously a lot of experience, which I'm not going to get into here. I'll try and obviously get into more detail in the pro course around this, but I'll be well after we look at context in an orderly market first and then yet happy to obviously get into FX because it's more advanced. But you're just going to have to take my word for it at this stage that the discord levels are obviously based on a lot of experience. And I already gave you the clues as well, didn't I? I said the market's been moving between 1.20 and sort of 1.15 throughout the week. So we have an established range. And we just happened to, something I'd spotted down just below 1.15 that it could have been 1.1440, 1.1450. It doesn't really matter. It's not a big deal. I'm certainly only talking 10 pips. But essentially, that was what it was. I was playing what? The larger weeks moved back to fair value. So that's why I put, you know, early in the morning, I'd said that I'm watching 1.1440. So pretty much most of this time, guys, I'll be honest with you, I wasn't in front of my screen. I was probably messing about with my dog in the garden. Whatever I was doing, I was doing something else. And I think maybe as we got closer and closer, I probably just kept close to my screens and, you know, did watch a bit of TV or something, whatever. My point is, you don't need to be staring at this. If you know the level is, and I think I say it here. So what do I say here? I still have to pinch myself that I'm calling 350 to 400 pip range as building volume, because obviously it's coronavirus. Normally, this range would only be 100 pip, 200 pip over the week. Now you're talking 400 pips. And I've said, let's see if we can get one more push. And it was actually this bit. So I'm watching 1.1440 in cable plus. I'll wait another couple of hours. I'll call it a day. So, you know, I was just waiting, basically, is my point. I must have stepped away. Then when I came back, we were probably getting very close. And I wanted to see one more push lower. And that'll present a decent fade. So we must have been there. We were slightly away. What it is, I wanted to see something. I wanted to see a clue that the last sellers were going to get basically stopped out. And then very close to the level I'd obviously announced in the morning, I was looking for us to have a quick snapback. In the end, funnily enough, it took 48 minutes. But as you'll see sometimes in Discord, these things can take two minutes. So it really was a case of sellers being a bit more stubborn or market makers playing games. Whatever you want to call it, it really doesn't matter. So anyway, let's press play. So that was the whole context. I was waiting for this push lower. And then in this particular example, because to be fair and because I was obviously planning to show you guys on a depth of market how it works, I actually used the depth of market to trade. I rarely do. But I mean, I'm watching it sometimes. But as you know, I prefer watching footprint and other things, mainly the footprint. And again, I'm using some experience when it comes to FX. It's not as that sounds a little bit like not crystal clear in terms of what I'm looking at. But I will be more with the orderly markets. You'll see I'm looking much more clearly. It's more the experience I'm using of having traded orderly markets. Little, little clues that are quite discretionary I'm looking for. But in this instance, I purely looked at the depth of market to help me trade with. So let's press play. So obviously, this is pre-recorded. So you can see my mouse will move without me actually moving it. Firstly, I want you to notice, guys, it's just how thin the volume is. Look how thin it is. It's so thin. A, B, look at the bid offer, guys. The bid offer is five ticks wide. In treasuries, it's never more than two, right? You always see it as two. Look at the bid offer here, guys. It's 1481, 1477. Huge bid offer. Partly because of the coronavirus stuff. It's mainly because of that. But you've got to remember, guys, even in normal times, the pound dollar market is very thin. So yeah, you might see more volume in normal times, but not that much more in treasuries. You're obviously seeing several hundred, as you know, 400, 500 average in bad times, like coronavirus times. In normal times, you will see several thousand on each side. In coronavirus times, you're seeing pound dollar at barely double digits, 10, 15, 20 average. In normal times, you might see a bit higher at 60, 70. But again, still very low compared to the thousands that you see in the treasuries. So those are the first two things I want you to notice. And you'll see how fast this market will start to move. Now, I apologize. I'm going to be talking a lot. You've got 47 minutes of me talking here. And I'm just going to try and tell you what I think I was watching for. I knew that they kind of got close enough. I wanted to see. We haven't quite touched 40. So what I was looking at here, I believe, is I wanted to see some volume build, firstly, I wanted to see some volume build, firstly, so I could key off it. You know, so some volume build and then we get to the edge of it and I trade it back in. So I wanted to lean off volume. So I'm waiting for some volume to build and the market to clue me in that. They're establishing some fair price lower, which I can then get up, used to bounce off and move up to this fair price. I had my eye on that was established earlier on in the day. So that area was probably somewhere in this region. So I'm waiting for some fair price to be built here and then I can take it up to the next fair price. So I just want you to note, guys, all of that profile. Sorry, I managed to. I'm just going to make sure I'm not cutting my face off here. Looks all right. So I'm just going to try and maximise it as much as possible. That's OK. So those of you that are eagle eyed may have noticed this 945. I was circling it before I was looking at that thinking, all right, there's potentially a big buyer in the market at the lows. Can you see that 945, guys? Big piece of information. So can you see we're already establishing some value here? I can see we're doing some decent trading around there. We're coming down. I want to see this tested. Can you see we're starting to establish very. This is why I say, guys, FX is much more advanced. The value that's being established is a lot tinier. Treasuries, S&Ps, etc. You'll see much more established value. So we've established this little bit of value. We're going down. Still seeing this bidder is staying there. He's trying to get filled potentially. We've made such a big move down, guys. The reality is this guy is probably very, very real. Not only is he real, but he's probably already getting filled above. You know, he's happy to start getting filled. I haven't seen anything unusual in terms of transactions here yet. You can still see it's only single digits. So nothing too aggressive from either side. And then even that, see, in the treasury market, if something like that happened, what you just saw there, that little pop, you'd think, oh, huge move. But you see, guys, you've got to understand, in pound dollars, peanuts. So you can see I just put a comment in there, watching the pound for some signs of a bounce. 40 is being tested. So we can see some value is being established there, a very small amount. So what I'm watching for is, I want to see, is there any clues that the market is going to just keep testing this and not be able to go and test that big buyer here? If they can't make this move, and we just keep establishing value here, and we start moving higher, I'm going to get long. Because that's a big clue. All right. Sellers are trying to test this bidder. Not happening. Sellers are trying to test this bidder. Not happening. So that's what I'll be watching for. Obviously, I know myself very well. This was done before, and I'm commentating on it now. But I know what I'd be looking for. So again, they're establishing some value down here. Very, very subtle here on the profile. So I'm very rudely just sipping my tea there. It's going to be a long session, guys. 40 minutes waiting for this to play out. So I think this is where I probably am going to start taking a position, just because we've come down. We've tested this. Look what we're doing, guys. To me, this is a very subtle area of value. This is why I keep saying it. Sorry to keep saying it, but it is quite advanced trading this style. Because watching and kind of knowing, in terms of the action, which areas of value are in terms of the action, which areas of value are important and which aren't. In thicker markets, it's a lot easier. In these markets, obviously, it does take some experience. So I kept mentioning this area that I was watching just to see. I wanted to see some volume trade down here. And they are struggling in this area. They just keep building it. I can even see it on the chart as well. A lot of trade taking place in this area. Sellers are really struggling to push this. Look, you've got that. You saw that there was a bidder of 68. You've got some decent bids stacking up in this area. People clearly want to get longer. Don't forget, I'm not interested necessarily in trading in this area. What do we say in the middle of value? Pointless. No edge. The 1.50 carton of milk is there. I'm interested in trading down here, but I also want little mini pockets of value that I can lean on. So it's been good 10 minutes now. Time, as I always say, is also an important factor. And it looks like we're establishing this little bit of value here. You can see it there, right? And again, I'm going to keep reiterating it, but you can see in this region, this region, we're establishing small pockets of value, which is what I'm watching. I just want to see the action around these little tiny pockets that we've built up. I just want to see how capable the sellers are of really attacking those areas. If they're not, then I know, obviously, sellers are weak. So you can see, guys, okay, the buying isn't amazing, but you've got to remember it's in the context of where we are. We've sold off so much, and the sellers just really aren't able to do much. So I think I'll probably get in now, because we're consistently... I can't remember exactly where I've got in, but... The other thing is, I know it's very subtle. I think this was probably somewhere around here. I'm getting in. I think what I'd like to do is, I'd like to try and see if I can get in here. I don't know if I can get in here. I don't know if I can get in here. So... I think what I liked here is this. So we saw some absorbing there. We've seen some absorbing here. There you go. So I just took my first position. You can see it's much more, and I took another position as well, as we came back and tested these previous areas of value. A lot of that, this, the reason why I took a second position was to do with... So you can see here, I've said, trying a little long fade. Let's see what happens. So you can see, guys, very transparent. I'm way away from where I've even entered, and I'm happy to obviously let people know. I wasn't too worried about this move back. It's obviously gone further than I would have liked, just because we had that big bidder at the lows. Do you remember we had that huge person wanting to bid at the lows? And let's get rid of this. Do you remember we had that... Well, you've got a red line at them. Unfortunately, this was pre-recorded, so I can't go further down, but we had the... So I've set... Obviously, I want to scale out of some of this. I believe it's about 20 pips. Which is basically... What it is, guys, is... I was just pausing to see if there was anything interesting I could point out. I want to explain something. So obviously, I've said here there's value, and I'm not necessarily interested in getting in here, but this is why this market is much more advanced. Because like I said, you've got all these mini, mini pockets of value. So you've got to remember, yeah, I don't necessarily want to get... It wasn't a great place for me to get long, but the problem is you've got to realize is you've got one, two, three, four, maybe five little tiny pockets of value that I'm looking at to key off. So when the market's coming down here... Unfortunately, I re-centered it there just as I was trying to explain. As I said to you at the start, I'm looking for us to move up to value much higher, which is up at the top on the... Excuse me, depth of market. So if we're coming down to these lower levels of value, and we're bouncing off them, and we're absorbing the value, and we're getting down to these lower levels of value, and we're bouncing off them, and we're absorbing here, and then I'm seeing strong buying come in, and we start attacking this value, what am I thinking? I'm thinking we're going to break through straight through to the other side and go to the next area of value. Because the kind of problem is, guys, if I wait for this to be broken, would you agree? A, it may never retrace, and it may just continue straight. So yeah, I'm preempting it. It's a little bit advanced. That's why I got in. And you can see that established area of value here. I did take the position going into it, but I just want you to understand that I had support below. I had previous value. And even here, I can actually see what it is is, it's very difficult for me to... This is why I couldn't teach you the course on the foundation course in a pound-dollar depth of market, because I can actually see absorption taking place here over five or six levels. You won't be able to spot it, guys. People are trading 16, 20, 10, when the bids are what? 20. So guys are trading over 80 to 100 contracts at one price level, whereas the bid is only 20. So clearly, there's absorption taking place, because only 20 people are bidding, yet they're absorbing. But you see, because you haven't got the experience of watching this a lot, you won't be able to spot that. So what I'm seeing is I'm seeing absorbing coming in in these little areas where people have established a little bit of volume, so like I've highlighted here. And as we come and retest it, it's showing me that the buyers are very much in control. And it's giving me confidence to go and attack this fair price and actually move on to the next one, preempt it. You can see, guys, it's just a repetitive pattern. Over the last 15 minutes, 15 minutes, the sellers have been trying to break those little subtle areas of value below, and they just have not been able to. So I think, to be honest, I might, I don't know, I'm just, I can't remember what I did, I'll be honest with you. This is a very transparent example where I haven't watched it in advance of my commentary, but I think I'm going to take another position here. So that's a 30 pip move to my first area, which is just to be safe ahead of the market. Which is just to be safe ahead of some value that I may have seen further up on the depth of market, but my point is that we've got, we've got this area of value here, and that's what I'm keen of, guys. I can see on the depth of market very subtly. This is one of the reasons I say to you guys, you know, I'm using experience to trade FX. I can actually see these areas with my eye, because I've been watching them for obviously 15 plus years, you know, 16 years I've been watching this market. So obviously, I've seen this happen a lot. I kind of see, all right, the sellers came and tested it, just even on my chart, but I was seeing it here, I was seeing the absorption. I didn't necessarily see great market orders. I think I just scrolled up, because I was just looking for other value areas to, or sort of established areas of value that I could target. So you can see this big bulge is really key here, guys, this, absolutely crucial. Once we break through here, this thing is going. Obviously, nothing's 100%. The market has established some value here. You see how we break up, and I would like to go and have a word with myself if I didn't add some on here, but I believe I must have taken some more here, because I do tend to get quite aggressive when I see this type of action. We've broken through this area of value. We're going to come back, and we're going to look at the market. We're going to look at the market, and we're going to look at the market. We're going to look at the market, and we're going to look at the market. Guys, every algorithm in the world, I can assure you, has seen this. As it pulls back, they're going to find support here in this area. So you're likely to see some very subtle potentially absorption or aggressive buying just coming in in this area. I mean, I highlighted there, but you can clearly see it there, can't you, this range here? Look at that, guys, 48. You can see some decent-sized bids, 50, 50 at these levels. People want to get long. Why? Because as soon as we pop into this area of value to the edge, they know, experienced traders know, that the trade is to take this not only back into this value, but all the way back up into the wider value. So look at this, 174 there. More than likely, a spoofer, guys. You see how I circled it there? In my mind, I'm thinking, what it is with experience, I just know there's a very, very high probability this is going up. And this guy is actually buying the market. That's what this guy is doing here. He's just messing around, guys. He's buying the market. What it is, he wants, there you go. Did you see it disappeared? Guys, he disappeared. What he's doing, he's spoofing the market. Great example of spoofing, which I said the regulator actually doesn't like that stuff. But anyway, it doesn't mean it doesn't happen. It's illegal, but it happens. What he's doing is he wants to buy What he's doing is he wants to buy this market. He's sitting here, maybe at 86 or wherever it is in this region. He wants to buy this market. I'm surprised I haven't bought this market again, but it did give another nice opportunity as we got to the edge of value, as I was saying, guys. Yeah, so what he was doing, he was sitting there with 170 plus contracts. He wanted basically some of the buyers to essentially crap their pants, guys. And take it back down so he can get filled on the bid. Did you get that? He's sitting there on the offer, pushing it down, creating a market. He's creating a market. He's creating a market. Pushing it down, creating some sort of worry amongst these buyers and doing what so he can get filled. So you see that 39? That would more than likely be the same guy getting filled. Sellers are selling to him. He's buying. When you see this type of action over and over and over, it doesn't worry me when I see these little pullbacks. That's what I'm saying. I'm surprised I haven't bought in again because great opportunity to buy the market again, guys. He's sitting here for 20 minutes now. And with experience, I just know that that is a long time to be sitting in this area for pound dollar. It suggests to me that institutions are loading up big time. What they're trying to do is they're obviously trying to just, um, they're not intentionally pushing the market down, but there probably is some game playing going on where they just want to get filled. That's what it is. They probably got client orders. They want to get filled. Just want you to notice, guys, this volume here being built now. Absolutely crucial. This volume is established volume being built in this entire range here. And that's where the market is finding support, guys. No divergence. Complete garbage, guys. Cannot stress to you enough why this market is finding support here. And if we do dip down, which we did earlier, do you remember we had that little dip where I took my first two entries and we dipped down? I was not concerned at all because what? We established a little bit of value down here. Again, like I said, I'm surprised I haven't. I like to obviously take my entries, as I've said many times, in a basket. I like to scale in. So I don't mind buying if we go below or above, but I like to wait for clues. And as far as I'm concerned, we've had a lot of clues here, especially with the spoofer coming in, a bit of absorption on the other side here and earlier, and now establishing fair price that we can lean on in two areas. Add to the fact we've been here 25 minutes, guys. At the end of the day, it's only a matter of time before all these guys selling in this region, it's going to dawn on them what's been happening, that essentially they're being absorbed. And institutions are saying, come, keep selling to us, we're buying, we're buying, let's buy. As soon as they realise it, what do they need to do? They're short. They need to exit, right? They need to buy. That's when this thing should pop, like literally pop, because they're all going to realise together. What will also happen is, again, some of these institutions that are trying to get filled here, obviously, there's some game playing going on, as I said, with the spoofer, who's pretending that he wants to sell, but really is absorbing. That could be one institution, it could be many, we don't know that, really doesn't matter. But the point is, eventually, they're going to realise that if they want to buy any more and we start moving away from this established area of value, this area, as soon as we start breaking this, this area, as soon as we start breaking this and this starts going, even they're going to pile in, the people who got short are going to pile in, the institutions are going to pile in because, why? They're targeting much higher guys to the sort of meat of the move, the area of value over the last few days. So you're going to have like three factors and that's why these moves are so great and I love them and you see me playing them every single day on the Discord and a good seven, eight times out of ten, they happen in two minutes. This whole process, in fact, is a great example because you're seeing what I see sometimes happen in two to five minutes happen over 40. So you can actually see almost in slow motion what I'm seeing, but as you can see, it's a much faster market than treasuries. So I'm just going to clear some of this up so you can see it better. Don't want to sound like a broken record guys, but here again you see no indicators guys, no indicators at all. Just looking at supply and demand, pure supply and demand. No indicator in the world is going to be able to do this. You are, human being, mind, using analytical read based on discretionary information coming through guys. So even if I see red bars coming in here, I'm very relaxed guys because I can see we've now established this area of value. I can see the sellers are struggling. There you see more absorbing, 39 contracts being absorbed. I'm fairly relaxed even though the market's gone against me a little bit. In fact, apologies, I may have even stepped away for a few minutes at this stage. Which is why the thing hasn't re-centered. I just want you to know I'm very, very relaxed at this stage. I'm very relaxed. There you go, come back to the screen now. And what were previously little pockets of value, you can see they're now starting to become much more established area of value here. And you can really see that here, right? So what did I say to you guys? When we come here, we're at the edge of value. I want to see things to decide if I want to play it back in. So this in itself is almost a little opportunity to play it back into this value. But as you know, I'm going for a much higher area of value, which really, in an ideal world, if I'm getting long here, I should be targeting much higher. But it doesn't matter. Obviously, I was quite happy in this instance just to take whatever I've got in the end. Reason I'm explaining all this, because I want you to know, guys, that you might be thinking, oh, what's Envy thinking? He's gone against him here a few pips. Big red bar. Guys, I don't care. I see this as opportunity to buy more. Given this circumstance, obviously, if we're just going like this and it's going down like a rocket, guys, I'm not going to fade that, am I? I'm not going to add more positions. Of course I'm not. I'm not crazy. I want information that's cluing me in. Even though it's going against me, is that an opportunity? Not to be scared and exit my position. To do the opposite, buy from the people who are exiting. Just remember now, we've established this area of value, guys. It's almost like a mini area of the milk carton example, where you've got 150 in the middle. And we just came to the edge. We went 140. Boom, we're going back. Happens, right, sometimes. Guy down the road selling it for 140. Everyone goes quickly, buys it, runs out of stock. We go back to 150. That's all that's happening here, guys. We're just testing the edges of a small established area, which you're seeing here on your volume profile. Something you'll never see on a normal chart. You can see this on the footprint, by the way, so don't worry. That's why I use the footprint a lot as well. I think what's happened is over the years, I've just got so used to watching the type of action here and it building that I no longer need the depth of market. I can just kind of see it on my chart and maybe with a little bit of footprint combined. So it's just a matter of so again, that's why I gave the lecture at the start. Don't get too frustrated if you feel like it's not beyond you. It's just experience, guys. Once you start watching this stuff for a while, you'll see different scenarios. Sometimes you see this test, it can go and test down and then it just popped back up and then we'll go. It happens, guys. Markets are not perfect. The sellers can overwhelm the buyers slightly and some of these buyers that clearly there's a lot of buying taking place here, some of them will bail. They're just emotional human beings, even if they're institutions like us, where they will be worried and there'll be a little blip. Personally, as you know, I don't let it worry me. I don't necessarily exit the position. I may not add, but I just watch, see what happens. Do we develop some new value down here that I can key off? If it obviously continues to go and go and go, fine, I've got to accept defeat. But what I'm not going to do is if it pops down here, until I've seen the action, either on my footprint or in the candles or whatever it could be, I'm not going to exit, guys. Because typically a lot of the times the market will just establish a new area of value here, break out of it, bounce back and then continue. It's much easier to see a lot of this in orderly markets. Again, why I gave that big lecture at the start of this. Can you see all that's happened, guys? All we've done is we've just come and tested the edge of this area of value that we've been building, which I've said it so many times, but you'll have to forgive me, you've got about 30 minutes of me on this one trade. So clearly the seller that wanted to sell previously, he's happy now. I can see it anyway. I've been watching, obviously just watching this over the last 30 minutes. He's absorbed, he's got himself filled. That gives me a lot more confidence as well that I know there's a big guy who's using this market. Could be as a hedge, it could be as anything. He may also be transacting in the spot market, we don't know. But the point is he's clearly taking long positions. And don't also forget, I saw a big guy at the lows come in who didn't really step away. So I know that even if we go down there, there's some decent support. The longer this goes on, the stronger the trade becomes. Because can you see, we're really establishing a strong area here, guys. Very, very important that you recognise that it's just value within value within value. We're kind of getting into the pro course a little bit here with this. It is a bit more advanced, but no difference. Every time we come to the edge, rather than just taking it back to this area of value, I'm just looking for it to smash through here and go to the bigger area of value. This is a key piece of information, right? We came here to the edge, what were sellers able to do? Nothing. So again, buyers come in. Guys, can you give buyers a lot of confidence this, that it's not just selling in the middle of nowhere. That's what you have to understand, guys. Very, very important you understand this. These sellers haven't just come in and I'm thinking, oh, sellers weren't able to do anything. They're just selling in the middle of nowhere. Oh, sellers weren't able to do anything in general. No, it's not that. It's sellers weren't able to do anything in a contextual area, in an important area. See, look at that. I'm even doing that because I think I'm trying to remind myself because I know I'll be doing commentary on it later. I'm kind of telling myself, Envy, make sure you tell all the listeners about this area. But obviously, I've done that because it's pretty obvious. But you've got to understand, guys, these sellers were not able to achieve much in the context of the value. They came to, and you've seen I've drawn the box here, came to the edge, tested, come back up. Very good opportunity, again, to buy here. I'm probably just being cautious because I've got two positions on. Fine. Maybe I'm just being sensible and waiting for extra information that we can indeed bust through. You see, what you've got to realize, guys, this is the first time that we've established such a strong area of value and traded above it. Can you see we're starting to now push above? So I know if we come back in, guys, these buyers, whoever's transacted around here, that guy you saw before, they're going to defend this area. Gives me a lot of confidence. So it's actually a great trade. I wish every trade would set up as cleanly as this in the mornings in London during when I'm trading, but it doesn't. In fact, this was just a beautiful trade to show as an example because you can really learn from this. And sometimes this same thing can happen over two, three, four, five minutes. Very difficult for you to spot the subtle clues. Here, you're actually seeing it. So I'm just going to draw that back in for you. This area of value, keep thinking about the milk carton example, is this, guys. Sorry, my drawing skills are not great. I'm very bad at drawing straight lines. See if I can get a little square. Can you see I just took another position there just as it popped, as it was popping in between. So now I've got three positions on. So I don't know how many more clues it needs to give that it was about to go up. I mean, I'm surprised I took so long. That's my point, guys, is that's the area. And look at that. Do you see all the sellers now bailed very quickly, realising we've been done over. Sorry, I'm just trying to get a thin area that I can... There you go. Can you see this, 122? It's a chancer, guys. He's just sitting there thinking, oh, maybe I can get a quick little cheeky fill. Do you see that? He got filled for 91 contracts, guys. Real buyer. Not like the other side, fake seller, real buyer. Huge clue that this is going higher. Absolutely huge clue. You can never say 100%. Of course not. We can't take anything for granted. But guys, just beautiful, isn't it? I mean, sorry, I know it's sad, but even after all these years of watching this, it's still just... Love it, guys. Love it. Absolutely love trading like this, because it's not... And I shouldn't really swear, and I'm not going to, but BS, crap, garbage. We're just sticking some indicator on and relying on that. That's lazy, guys. You're never going to succeed like that. You see these clues? Buyers, real buyers and sellers, giving you real clues. But it's hard work, guys. You have to learn. And you can't just sit there and say, and you're going to have to do a lot of practice to be able to pick up things like that. Okay, so that got taken out. I still got one position on. The reason I kind of was being cautious is because you see this other area of value above, which is kind of this area here. So there you go, plus 30 on the maturity of the trade. Okay, I'm just holding it now, and I'm going to... I probably... It's just my style of trading. A lot of people, and you could argue the right thing to do, it's easy to say in hindsight, is to hold this all the way up to this. You see there's no value here, guys. There's not much stopping power. That is a great area to get out, but guys, up to there is 45 points. I'm happy. It's just my style of trading. I prefer to have a little bit, not much drawdown, because the problem is if I'm going to go up there, I'm going to have to face drawdown, and I prefer to just take the pips that are available. Everyone's different. You can never copy someone exactly. It's impossible, guys. So you see even more absorbing there, 37. Very, very strong market. Sorry, I know I'm talking a lot. I hope this is helpful. It's absolutely crucial, that absorption you saw there. Real buyer. So it's almost 50 points, to be honest, guys. I very rarely take more than 10. Obviously, this is a unique market with the corona, so the ranges are wider, but pretty much using the same ... I mean, I'm using exactly the same logic to enter or exit with these things. So even this is a perfectly reasonable area to exit the trade, just because you're running into previous area of value. We've established some value in this. You're going to see some people exit in this area. A lot of algorithms will be watching this area. I can't remember exactly what I did, whether I let it run or whether I ... What it is, guys, it's not that I've watched this back, and I know ... I can't even remember what I did here. This was a good couple of days ago, but I just know what I look for, and that is I'm looking at this, and I'm looking to see if there's any clues here that there's any sellers stepping in. So we have managed to get above that, which is good. But again, we're in this crucial zone here. Still, again, a very good, fine area to take it, because you've got to remember that ... Can you see how it starts to get thin now? That's the bulge area there. So it's really ... We're getting very close to the edge now of what is value, and then we start to really thin out here. So even here, to be honest, is a very good area to get out. So we can see the initial surge of buying. People are clearly ... Not necessarily taking profit, but you can see the further buying has slowed down, because you're still seeing absorbing here. You're still seeing absorption, guys. So we're getting close to the edge now. So we're getting close to the edge here. I think that's why I saw a little bit of this absorption, and obviously this bidder at 80, very much a real buyer. And we've managed to get towards the edge of this next period of area value. 22 contracts there, but we're getting close to the edge now. Pretty decent size buying. 18. If we don't push further, clearly that's a little bit of absorption taking place there on the other side. Some sellers leaving limit orders, trying to get filled. There you go. What a surprise. I moved it down. Yeah, because did you see that absorption? We saw the 18, 22, and we couldn't push up. That's offers standing firm, guys. It's absorption. How do I know that? Well, there wasn't 18 or 22 on the offer side. There wasn't 40 contracts sitting there, was there? It was hidden. There's probably some algorithms that have been part of this move up, just taking profits. And there you go, I got taken out. Very, very strong market. Very high probability, given the amount of absorption and buying, and this bidder's still sitting here. There you go, out. All at plus 40. That we do move higher. But guys, look, end of the day, I don't care. And people say, why don't you care? Why don't you take more? Guys, I'm happy to take my 10, 20 points or whatever it is every single day, rather than sitting there trying to reach for the stars and giving up. You need to understand how trading works. It evens itself out over the end. And I prefer to have a smoother equity curve with lower drawdown. When I trade futures, you've seen it, oil markets, whatever. I've got no problem taking 80, 90, 100 points. It's not a problem. But it's a different market. It's an orderly market. In this market, what you've got to understand is it's not like that. There can be a lot of random flow coming in. As I said, the $5 trillion, it makes me laugh. People say the $5 trillion is a good thing. It's actually a bad thing. There's so much random volume. Once you get the initial surge, probability of the move going in your favor is very, very low. You're much better off just taking what you can. So there you go. Some of those absorbers was probably spotted by a lot of other guys who had taken this move up. And you'll see some profit taking now coming, which I can see here. So what I've written here is this course, whole trade was recorded live for the foundation course with the dome side-by-side, and will be uploaded to the example section. Hello to those watching this on the course. Feel free to come back to the Discord and check the levels here. So just three minutes of the example left, guys. Very well-supported market. You can see here, decent bid size. Very little offers, thin offers there. Still very much in control. We've got this whole area of fair price is going to act as support. Obviously, I'm out of this move. There's two minutes left. I hope it was clear what I was doing there. I was coming down to the lows. I was waiting for some area of value to be established. And then I was playing a mini area value, edge, to get back in to the next area. I'll move that out of the way now. All right, guys. So that's the end of the example. If you can see, we just had a big bunch of people just take profit there. So we have popped down. As I said, guys, the market loves fair price. So my guess is they'll just mingle around here for a bit before probably moving higher later on. So you'll see a lot more trade here. How do I know that? Well, because trade has taken place there. It comes back to the milk thing, guys. It's like you having the data knowing, as I said, you stand outside the shop all day long and everyone you ask how much you pay for your milk. Do you remember the example? If you don't, go back to the auction market theory. Everyone says 150, 150, 145, 150, 150. You draw your own volume profile. Someone says to you, you know, where's milk likely to trade? 150, guys. Not rocket science. So you know, the market likes this area. How do I know? Because it's traded there. Simple as that. You know, I'm not a clever genius or anything like that, guys. I'm just using logic. It's traded there. So it's likely to trade there and be happy there. So there's the fields that you saw, the three positions that I got in and out of. I'm going to put that in the Discord. But I'm going to end the video here, guys. I hope that was useful. Just pause that. Yeah, I hope that was useful. If you've got any questions, let me know. I'm not going to let this play out like the last video because, again, I hope you can see it's quite advanced. I don't want to spend too much time on this stuff, maybe a couple of weeks max. As long as you're comfortable with everything, like I said, great. If you can do the whole thing again, brilliant. If not, as in all the exercises again, maybe spend another couple of months really hammering home what market orders are, what's sitting on the bid is, looking at absorption, understanding how the profile is built, looking at auction market theory stuff that I've explained to you. Guys, you are going to absolutely... This is not a guarantee you're going to be successful, but the chances of it happening and you being able to understand the concepts in the Pro Course very, very well are going to increase exponentially the more time you spend doing this. Hope you enjoyed that. Any questions, let me know, guys. See you later.